---
title: REST API endpoints for deploy keys
shortTitle: Deploy keys
intro: Use the REST API to create and manage deploy keys.
versions: # DO NOT MANUALLY EDIT. CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN BY A 🤖
  fpt: '*'
  ghec: '*'
  ghes: '*'
topics:
  - API
allowTitleToDifferFromFilename: true
redirect_from:
  - /rest/reference/deploy_keys
autogenerated: rest
---

## About deploy keys

{% data reusables.repositories.deploy-keys %}

Deploy keys can either be set up using the following API endpoints, or by using the {% data variables.product.company_short %} web interface. To learn how to set deploy keys up in the web interface, see [AUTOTITLE](/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/managing-deploy-keys).

{% ifversion deploy-keys-enterprise-org-policy %}

You may be unable to create deploy keys if your organization or enterprise owner has set a policy to restrict their use. Furthermore, if this policy is enabled at the organization or enterprise level, existing deploy keys may be disabled. For more information, see [AUTOTITLE](/admin/policies/enforcing-policies-for-your-enterprise/enforcing-repository-management-policies-in-your-enterprise#enforcing-a-policy-for-deploy-keys) and [AUTOTITLE](/organizations/managing-organization-settings/restricting-deploy-keys-in-your-organization).
{% endif %}

There are a few cases when a deploy key will be deleted by other activity:

* If the deploy key is created with a {% data variables.product.pat_generic %}, deleting the {% data variables.product.pat_generic %} will also delete the deploy key. Regenerating the {% data variables.product.pat_generic %} will not delete the deploy key.
* If the deploy key is created with an {% data variables.product.prodname_oauth_app %} token, revoking the token will also delete the deploy key.

Conversely, these activities will not delete a deploy key:

* If the deploy key is created with a {% data variables.product.prodname_github_app %} user access token, revoking the token will not delete the deploy key.
* If the deploy key is created with a {% data variables.product.prodname_github_app %} installation access token, uninstalling or deleting the app will not delete the deploy key.
* If the deploy key is created with a {% data variables.product.pat_generic %}, regenerating the {% data variables.product.pat_generic %} will not delete the deploy key.

<!-- Content after this section is automatically generated -->
