If you notice the jobs that target your {% data variables.actions.hosted_runner %}s are delayed or not running, there are several factors that may be causing this.

* **Concurrency settings**: You may have reached your maximum concurrency limit. If you would like to enable more jobs to run in parallel, you can update your autoscaling settings to a larger number. For more information, see "[AUTOTITLE](/actions/using-github-hosted-runners/managing-larger-runners#configuring-autoscaling-for-larger-runners)."
* **Repository permissions**: Ensure you have the appropriate repository permissions enabled for your {% data variables.actions.hosted_runner %}s. By default, enterprise runners are not available at the repository level and must be manually enabled by an organization administrator. For more information, see "[AUTOTITLE](/actions/using-github-hosted-runners/managing-larger-runners#allowing-repositories-to-access-larger-runners)."
* **Billing information**: You must have a valid credit card on file in order to use {% data variables.actions.hosted_runner %}s. After adding a credit card to your account, it can take up to 10 minutes to enable the use of your {% data variables.actions.hosted_runner %}s. For more information, see "[AUTOTITLE](/billing/managing-your-github-billing-settings/adding-or-editing-a-payment-method)."
* **Spending limit**: Your {% data variables.product.prodname_actions %} spending limit must be set to a value greater than zero. For more information, see "[AUTOTITLE](/billing/managing-billing-for-github-actions/managing-your-spending-limit-for-github-actions)."
* **Fair use policy**: {% data variables.product.company_short %} has a fair use policy that begins to throttle jobs based on several factors, such as how many jobs you are running or how many jobs are running across the entirety of {% data variables.product.prodname_actions %}.
* **Job queue to assign time**: Job queue to assign time refers to the time between a job request and {% data variables.product.company_short %} assigning a VM to execute the job. Standard {% data variables.product.company_short %}-hosted runners utilizing prescribed YAML workflow labels (such as `ubuntu-latest`) are always in a "warm" state. With larger runners, a warm machine may not be ready to pick up a job on first request as the pools for these machines are smaller. As a result, {% data variables.product.company_short %} may need to create a new VM, which increases the queue to assign time. Once a runner is in use, VMs are readily for subsequent workflow runs, reducing the queue to assign time for future workflow runs over the next 24 hours.
