> [!TIP]
> * The **Request changes** option is purely informational and will not prevent merging unless a ruleset or classic branch protection rule is configured with the "require a pull request" option. If configured and a collaborator with `admin`, `owner`, or `write` access to the repository submits a review requesting changes, the pull request cannot be merged until the same collaborator submits another review approving the changes in the pull request.
> * Repository owners and administrators can merge a pull request even if it hasn't received an approving review, or if a reviewer who requested changes has left the organization or is unavailable.
> * If both required reviews and stale review dismissal are enabled and a code-modifying commit is pushed to the branch of an approved pull request, the approval is dismissed. The pull request must be reviewed and approved again before it can be merged.
> * When several open pull requests each have a head branch pointing to the same commit, you won’t be able to merge them if one or both have a pending or rejected review.
> * If your repository requires approving reviews from people with write or admin permissions, the reviewers sidebar groups approvals by permission level. Approvals can appear in two sections:
>     * The **top section** mostly contains approvals from people with write or admin permissions that count toward merge requirements. Approvals by {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} also appear in this section even though {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} reviews do not count toward those requirements.
>     * The **collapsible section (if present)** shows approvals from reviewers whose reviews do not affect whether the pull request can be merged.
> * Pull request authors cannot approve their own pull requests.{% ifversion copilot %} You will also not be able to approve a pull request that was raised by {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} if it was you who assigned {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot_short %} to the issue to which the pull request relates.{% endif %}
