---
title: Git LFS
intro: >-
  Use the REST API to enable or disable {% data
  variables.large_files.product_name_long %} (LFS) for a repository.
versions: # DO NOT MANUALLY EDIT. CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN BY A 🤖
  ghae: '*'
  ghec: '*'
  ghes: '*'
topics:
  - API
allowTitleToDifferFromFilename: true
autogenerated: rest
---

## About {% data variables.large_files.product_name_short %}

You can use {% data variables.large_files.product_name_short %} to store large files in a Git repository. The REST API allows you to enable or disable the feature for an individual repository. For more information about  {% data variables.large_files.product_name_short %}, see "[AUTOTITLE](/repositories/working-with-files/managing-large-files/about-git-large-file-storage)."

People with admin access to a repository can use these endpoints.

{% ifversion fpt or ghec %}

Usage of {% data variables.large_files.product_name_short %} is subject to billing. For more information, see "[AUTOTITLE](/billing/managing-billing-for-git-large-file-storage/about-billing-for-git-large-file-storage)."

If you want to use these endpoints for a repository that belongs to an organization, you must have admin access to the repository (which can be inherited as an organization owner), and your role must also provide you with access to the organization's billing.

{% ifversion ghec %}

- If repository is owned by an organization on {% data variables.product.prodname_team %}, you must be an organization owner or billing manager. For more information, see "[AUTOTITLE](/organizations/managing-peoples-access-to-your-organization-with-roles/roles-in-an-organization#organization-owners)".
- If repository is owned by an organization that is on {% data variables.product.prodname_ghe_cloud %} and is not owned by an enterprise account, you must be an organization owner or billing manager. For more information, see "[AUTOTITLE](/organizations/managing-peoples-access-to-your-organization-with-roles/roles-in-an-organization#organization-owners)."
- If repository is owned by an organization that is owned by an enterprise account, you must be an enterprise owner or billing manager. For more information, see "[AUTOTITLE](/admin/user-management/managing-users-in-your-enterprise/roles-in-an-enterprise#enterprise-owners)."

{% endif %}

{% endif %}

<!-- Content after this section is automatically generated -->
