---
title: GitHub Copilot Telemetry Terms
intro: 'Acceptance of the additional telemetry described below is a condition to joining the wait list for the technical preview of {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} and using {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} during the technical preview.'
redirect_from:
  - /early-access/github/copilot/telemetry-terms
  - /github/copilot/telemetry-terms
versions:
  fpt: '*'
effectiveDate: '2021-10-04'
---

## 附加遥测

If you use {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %}, the {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} extension/plugin will collect usage information about events generated by interacting with the integrated development environment (IDE). These events include {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} performance, features used, and suggestions accepted, modified and accepted, or dismissed. This information may include personal data, including your User Personal Information, as defined in the [GitHub Privacy Statement](/github/site-policy/github-privacy-statement).

This usage information is used by {% data variables.product.company_short %}, and shared with Microsoft and OpenAI, to develop and improve the extension/plugin and related products. OpenAI also uses this usage information to perform other services related to {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %}. For example, when you edit files with the {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} extension/plugin enabled, file content snippets, suggestions, and any modifications to suggestions will be shared with {% data variables.product.company_short %}, Microsoft, and OpenAI, and used for diagnostic purposes to improve suggestions and related products. {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} relies on file content for context, both in the file you are editing and potentially other files open in the same IDE instance. When you are using {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %}, it may also collect the URLs of repositories or file paths for relevant files. {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} does not use these URLs, file paths, or snippets collected in your telemetry as suggestions for other users of {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %}. This information is treated as confidential information and accessed on a need-to-know basis. You are prohibited from collecting telemetry data about other users of {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} from the {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} extension/plugin. For more details about {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} telemetry, please see "[About {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} telemetry](/github/copilot/about-github-copilot-telemetry)." You may revoke your consent to the telemetry and personal data processing operations described in this paragraph by contacting GitHub and requesting removal from the technical preview.

