---
title: Notifications
intro: >-
  Use the REST API to manage {% data variables.product.product_name %}
  notifications.
versions: # DO NOT MANUALLY EDIT. CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN BY A 🤖
  fpt: '*'
  ghae: '*'
  ghec: '*'
  ghes: '*'
topics:
  - API
autogenerated: rest
---

## About {% data variables.product.product_name %} notifications

{% data reusables.user-settings.notifications-api-classic-pat-only %}

You can use the REST API to manage {% data variables.product.product_name %} notifications. For more information about notifications, see "[AUTOTITLE](/account-and-profile/managing-subscriptions-and-notifications-on-github/setting-up-notifications/about-notifications)."

All calls to these endpoints require the `notifications` or `repo` scopes. You will need the `repo` scope to access issues and commits from their respective endpoints.

Notifications are returned as "threads".  A thread contains information about the current discussion of an issue, pull request, or commit.

Notifications are optimized for polling with the `Last-Modified` header.  If there are no new notifications, you will see a `304 Not Modified` response, leaving your current rate limit untouched.  There is an `X-Poll-Interval` header that specifies how often (in seconds) you are allowed to poll.  In times of high server load, the time may increase.  Please obey the header.

``` shell
# Add authentication to your requests
$ curl -I {% data variables.product.api_url_pre %}/notifications
HTTP/2 200
Last-Modified: Thu, 25 Oct 2012 15:16:27 GMT
X-Poll-Interval: 60

# Pass the Last-Modified header exactly
$ curl -I {% data variables.product.api_url_pre %}/notifications
$    -H "If-Modified-Since: Thu, 25 Oct 2012 15:16:27 GMT"
> HTTP/2 304
> X-Poll-Interval: 60
```

### About notification reasons

These GET endpoints return a `reason` key. These `reason`s correspond to events that trigger a notification.

There are a few potential `reason`s for receiving a notification.

Reason Name | Description
------------|------------
`assign` | You were assigned to the issue.
`author` | You created the thread.
`comment` | You commented on the thread.
`ci_activity` | A {% data variables.product.prodname_actions %} workflow run that you triggered was completed.
`invitation` | You accepted an invitation to contribute to the repository.
`manual` | You subscribed to the thread (via an issue or pull request).
`mention` | You were specifically **@mentioned** in the content.
`review_requested` | You, or a team you're a member of, were requested to review a pull request.{% ifversion fpt or ghec %}
`security_alert` | {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} discovered a [security vulnerability](/code-security/dependabot/dependabot-alerts/about-dependabot-alerts) in your repository.{% endif %}
`state_change` | You changed the thread state (for example, closing an issue or merging a pull request).
`subscribed` | You're watching the repository.
`team_mention` | You were on a team that was mentioned.

Note that the `reason` is modified on a per-thread basis, and can change, if the `reason` on a later notification is different.

For example, if you are the author of an issue, subsequent notifications on that issue will have a `reason` of `author`. If you're then  **@mentioned** on the same issue, the notifications you fetch thereafter will have a `reason` of `mention`. The `reason` remains as `mention`, regardless of whether you're ever mentioned again.

<!-- Content after this section is automatically generated -->
