Skip to main content
Search
Search
Filter by title
Local File Systems
 Win32  Desktop Technologies  Data Access and Storage 
Local File Systems
Article
01/07/2021
2 minutes to read
5 contributors
A file system enables applications to store and retrieve files on storage devices. Files are placed in a hierarchical structure. The file system specifies naming conventions for files and the format for specifying the path to a file in the tree structure.
Each file system consists of one or more drivers and dynamic-link libraries that define the data formats and features of the file system. File systems can exist on many different types of storage devices, including hard disks, jukeboxes, removable optical disks, tape back-up units, and memory cards.
All file systems supported by Windows have the following storage components:
Volumes. A volume is a collection of directories and files.
Directories. A directory is a hierarchical collection of directories and files.
Files. A file is a logical grouping of related data.
In this section
Topic	Description
Directory Management
A directory is a hierarchical collection of directories and files. The only constraint on the number of files that can be contained in a single directory is the physical size of the disk on which the directory is located.
Disk Management
A hard disk is a rigid disk inside a computer that stores and provides relatively quick access to large amounts of data. It is the type of storage most often used with Windows. The system also supports removable media.
File Management
A file object provides a representation of a resource (either a physical device or a resource located on a physical device) that can be managed by the I/O system.
Transactional NTFS (TxF)
Transactional NTFS (TxF) allows file operations on an NTFS file system volume to be performed in a transaction.
Volume Management
The highest level of organization in the file system is the volume. A file system resides on a volume.
Related topics
FAT Technical Reference
File Systems Technologies
NTFS Technical Reference
Recommended content
Using File Management - Win32 apps
The following samples use the file management functions.
About Directory Management - Win32 apps
A directory that contains one or more directories is the parent of the contained directory or directories, and each contained directory is a child of the parent directory. The hierarchical structure of directories is referred to as a directory tree.
About File Management - Win32 apps
Information about file management.
File Management (Local File Systems) - Win32 apps
A file object provides a representation of a resource (either a physical device or a resource located on a physical device) that can be managed by the I/O system.
In this article
In this section
Related topics
Previous Versions
Blog
Contribute
Privacy
Terms of Use
Trademarks
© Microsoft 2023
# REST
## About this directory
* `lib/rest/index.js` is human-editable.
* `lib/rest/static/*.json` are generated by [scripts](../../script/rest/README.md).

## Editable files

* `lib/rest/index.js` consumes the static decorated schema files and exports `categories`, `operations`, and `operationsEnabledForGitHubApps` used by the REST middleware contextualizer.

## Static files

Generated by `script/rest/update-files.js`:

* `lib/rest/static/decorated` - files generated from the dereferenced OpenAPI schema with the Markdown descriptions rendered in HTML
* `lib/rest/static/dereferenced` - **NOTE** These are only generated if you pass the --keep-dereferenced-files option and are not checked into the repository. This option is for debug only.

## Rendering docs

When the server starts, `middleware/contextualizers/rest.js` accesses the data exported from the static decorated JSON files, fetches the data for the current version and requested path, and adds it to the `context` object. The added property is:

* `req.context.currentRestOperations` - all operations with a category matching the current path

Markdown files in `content/rest/reference` use Liquid to loop over these context properties. The Liquid calls HTML files in the `includes` directory to do most of the rendering. Writers can add content to the Markdown files alongside the Liquid.
