---
title: bqrs info
versions: # DO NOT MANUALLY EDIT. CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN BY A 🤖
  fpt: '*'
  ghec: '*'
  ghes: '*'
topics:
  - Advanced Security
  - Code scanning
  - CodeQL
type: reference
product: '{% data reusables.gated-features.codeql %}'
autogenerated: codeql-cli
intro: Display metadata for a BQRS file.
redirect_from:
  - /code-security/codeql-cli/manual/bqrs-info
---


<!-- Content after this section is automatically generated -->

{% data reusables.codeql-cli.man-pages-version-note %}

## Synopsis

```shell copy
codeql bqrs info <options>... -- <file>
```

## Description

Display metadata for a BQRS file.

This command displays an overview of the data contained in the compact
binary BQRS file that is the result of executing a query. It shows the
names and sizes of each result set (table) in the BQRS file, and the
column types of each result set.

It can also optionally precompute offsets for using the pagination
options of [codeql bqrs decode](/code-security/codeql-cli/codeql-cli-manual/bqrs-decode). This is mainly useful for IDE plugins.

## Options

### Primary Options

#### `<file>`

\[Mandatory] BQRS file to show information about.

#### `--format=<fmt>`

Select output format, either `text` _(default)_ or `json`.

### Supporting pagination in codeql bqrs decode

#### `--paginate-rows=<num>`

\[Advanced] When given together with `--format=json`, compute a table
of byte offsets that can later be given to the `--start-at` option of
[codeql bqrs decode](/code-security/codeql-cli/codeql-cli-manual/bqrs-decode), to start streaming results at positions 0, _\<num>_, 2\*_\<num>_, and so
forth.

#### `--paginate-result-set=<name>`

\[Advanced] Only process `--paginate-rows` for result sets with this
name. (If the name does not match any result set, `--paginate-rows` is a
no-op).

### Common options

#### `-h, --help`

Show this help text.

#### `-J=<opt>`

\[Advanced] Give option to the JVM running the command.

(Beware that options containing spaces will not be handled correctly.)

#### `-v, --verbose`

Incrementally increase the number of progress messages printed.

#### `-q, --quiet`

Incrementally decrease the number of progress messages printed.

#### `--verbosity=<level>`

\[Advanced] Explicitly set the verbosity level to one of errors,
warnings, progress, progress+, progress++, progress+++. Overrides `-v`
and `-q`.

#### `--logdir=<dir>`

\[Advanced] Write detailed logs to one or more files in the given
directory, with generated names that include timestamps and the name of
the running subcommand.

(To write a log file with a name you have full control over, instead
give `--log-to-stderr` and redirect stderr as desired.)

#### `--common-caches=<dir>`

\[Advanced] Controls the location of cached data on disk that will
persist between several runs of the CLI, such as downloaded QL packs and
compiled query plans. If not set explicitly, this defaults to a
directory named `.codeql` in the user's home directory; it will be
created if it doesn't already exist.

Available since `v2.15.2`.
