---
title: database finalize
versions: # DO NOT MANUALLY EDIT. CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN BY A 🤖
  fpt: '*'
  ghec: '*'
  ghes: '*'
topics:
  - Advanced Security
  - Code scanning
  - CodeQL
type: reference
product: '{% data reusables.gated-features.codeql %}'
autogenerated: codeql-cli
intro: '[Plumbing] Final steps in database creation.'
redirect_from:
  - /code-security/codeql-cli/manual/database-finalize
---


<!-- Content after this section is automatically generated -->

{% data reusables.codeql-cli.man-pages-version-note %}

## Synopsis

```shell copy
codeql database finalize [--dbscheme=<file>] [--threads=<num>] [--ram=<MB>] <options>... -- <database>
```

## Description

\[Plumbing] Final steps in database creation.

Finalize a database that was created with [codeql database init](/code-security/codeql-cli/codeql-cli-manual/database-init) and subsequently seeded with analysis data using [codeql database trace-command](/code-security/codeql-cli/codeql-cli-manual/database-trace-command). This needs to happen before the new database can be queried.

## Options

### Primary Options

#### `<database>`

\[Mandatory] Path to the CodeQL database under construction. This must
have been prepared for extraction with [codeql database init](/code-security/codeql-cli/codeql-cli-manual/database-init).

If the `--db-cluster` option is given, this is not a database itself,
but a directory that _contains_ databases, and all of those databases
will be processed together.

#### `--[no-]db-cluster`

Indicates that the directory given on the command line is not a database
itself, but a directory that _contains_ one or more databases under
construction. Those databases will be processed together.

#### `--additional-dbs=<database>[:<database>...]`

\[Advanced] Path to additional CodeQL databases under construction.
These will not themselves be finalized, but the data from them will be
included in the finalized database being created. This is an advanced
option that may not have the desired effect in all cases. For more
information, please refer to the documentation of [codeql database import](/code-security/codeql-cli/codeql-cli-manual/database-import).

If the `--db-cluster` option is given, it is expected that these will be
database clusters rather than individual CodeQL databases.

(Note: On Windows the path separator is `;`).

#### `--no-cleanup`

\[Advanced] Suppress all database cleanup after finalization. Useful
for debugging purposes.

#### `--no-pre-finalize`

\[Advanced] Skip any pre-finalize script specified by the active CodeQL
extractor.

#### `--[no-]skip-empty`

\[Advanced] Output a warning instead of failing if a database is empty
because no source code was seen during the build. The empty database
will be left unfinalized.

### Options for controlling the TRAP import operation

#### `-S, --dbscheme=<file>`

\[Advanced] Override the auto-detected dbscheme definition that the
TRAP files are assumed to adhere to. Normally, this is taken from the
database's extractor.

#### `-j, --threads=<num>`

Use this many threads for the import operation.

Defaults to 1. You can pass 0 to use one thread per core on the machine,
or -_N_ to leave _N_ cores unused (except still use at least one
thread).

#### `-M, --ram=<MB>`

Use this much memory for the import operation.

### Low-level dataset cleanup options

#### `--max-disk-cache=<MB>`

Set the maximum amount of space that the disk cache for intermediate
query results can use.

If this size is not configured explicitly, the evaluator will try to use
a "reasonable" amount of cache space, based on the size of the dataset
and the complexity of the queries. Explicitly setting a higher limit
than this default usage will enable additional caching which can speed
up later queries.

#### `--min-disk-free=<MB>`

\[Advanced] Set target amount of free space on file system.

If `--max-disk-cache` is not given, the evaluator will try hard to
curtail disk cache usage if the free space on the file system drops
below this value.

#### `--min-disk-free-pct=<pct>`

\[Advanced] Set target fraction of free space on file system.

If `--max-disk-cache` is not given, the evaluator will try hard to
curtail disk cache usage if the free space on the file system drops
below this percentage.

#### `--cache-cleanup=<mode>`

Select how aggressively to trim the cache. Choices include:

`clear`: Remove the entire cache, trimming down to the state of a
freshly extracted dataset

`trim` _(default)_: Trim everything except explicitly "cached"
predicates.

`fit`: Simply make sure the defined size limits for the disk cache are
observed, deleting as many intermediates as necessary.

#### `--cleanup-upgrade-backups`

Delete any backup directories resulting from database upgrades.

### Options for checking imported TRAP

#### `--[no-]check-undefined-labels`

\[Advanced] Report errors for undefined labels.

#### `--[no-]check-unused-labels`

\[Advanced] Report errors for unused labels.

#### `--[no-]check-repeated-labels`

\[Advanced] Report errors for repeated labels.

#### `--[no-]check-redefined-labels`

\[Advanced] Report errors for redefined labels.

#### `--[no-]check-use-before-definition`

\[Advanced] Report errors for labels used before they're defined.

#### `--[no-]fail-on-trap-errors`

\[Advanced] Exit non-zero if an error occurs during trap import.

#### `--[no-]include-location-in-star`

\[Advanced] Construct entity IDs that encode the location in the TRAP
file they came from. Can be useful for debugging of TRAP generators, but
takes up a lot of space in the dataset.

#### `--[no-]linkage-aware-import`

\[Advanced] Controls whether [codeql dataset import](/code-security/codeql-cli/codeql-cli-manual/dataset-import) is linkage-aware _(default)_ or not. On projects where this part of database creation
consumes too much memory, disabling this option may help them progress
at the expense of database completeness.

Available since `v2.15.3`.

### Common options

#### `-h, --help`

Show this help text.

#### `-J=<opt>`

\[Advanced] Give option to the JVM running the command.

(Beware that options containing spaces will not be handled correctly.)

#### `-v, --verbose`

Incrementally increase the number of progress messages printed.

#### `-q, --quiet`

Incrementally decrease the number of progress messages printed.

#### `--verbosity=<level>`

\[Advanced] Explicitly set the verbosity level to one of errors,
warnings, progress, progress+, progress++, progress+++. Overrides `-v`
and `-q`.

#### `--logdir=<dir>`

\[Advanced] Write detailed logs to one or more files in the given
directory, with generated names that include timestamps and the name of
the running subcommand.

(To write a log file with a name you have full control over, instead
give `--log-to-stderr` and redirect stderr as desired.)

#### `--common-caches=<dir>`

\[Advanced] Controls the location of cached data on disk that will
persist between several runs of the CLI, such as downloaded QL packs and
compiled query plans. If not set explicitly, this defaults to a
directory named `.codeql` in the user's home directory; it will be
created if it doesn't already exist.

Available since `v2.15.2`.
