---
title: database bundle
versions: # DO NOT MANUALLY EDIT. CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN BY A 🤖
  fpt: '*'
  ghec: '*'
  ghes: '*'
topics:
  - Advanced Security
  - Code scanning
  - CodeQL
type: reference
product: '{% data reusables.gated-features.codeql %}'
autogenerated: codeql-cli
intro: Create a relocatable archive of a CodeQL database.
redirect_from:
  - /code-security/codeql-cli/manual/database-bundle
---


<!-- Content after this section is automatically generated -->

{% data reusables.codeql-cli.man-pages-version-note %}

## Synopsis

```shell copy
codeql database bundle --output=<output> <options>... -- <database>
```

## Description

Create a relocatable archive of a CodeQL database.

A command that zips up the useful parts of the database. This will only
include the mandatory components, unless the user specifically requests
that results, logs, TRAP, or similar should be included.

## Options

### Primary Options

#### `<database>`

\[Mandatory] Path to the CodeQL database to bundle.

#### `-o, --output=<output>`

\[Mandatory] The output file, typically with the extension ".zip".

#### `--include-diagnostics`

Include diagnostics in the bundle.

Available since `v2.16.0`.

#### `--include-results`

Include any precomputed query results in the bundle.

#### `--include-temp`

Includes the "temp" directory, where any generated packs, queries, and
suites are located.

Available since `v2.13.3`.

#### `--include-uncompressed-source`

Include an uncompressed version of the source archive directory. This is
necessary for legacy CodeQL plugins (like CodeQL for Eclipse).

#### `--name=<name>`

The name of the top-level directory in the bundle. If not given, it
defaults to the name of the database directory.

### Low-level dataset cleanup options

#### `--max-disk-cache=<MB>`

Set the maximum amount of space that the disk cache for intermediate
query results can use.

If this size is not configured explicitly, the evaluator will try to use
a "reasonable" amount of cache space, based on the size of the dataset
and the complexity of the queries. Explicitly setting a higher limit
than this default usage will enable additional caching which can speed
up later queries.

#### `--min-disk-free=<MB>`

\[Advanced] Set target amount of free space on file system.

If `--max-disk-cache` is not given, the evaluator will try hard to
curtail disk cache usage if the free space on the file system drops
below this value.

#### `--min-disk-free-pct=<pct>`

\[Advanced] Set target fraction of free space on file system.

If `--max-disk-cache` is not given, the evaluator will try hard to
curtail disk cache usage if the free space on the file system drops
below this percentage.

#### `--cache-cleanup=<mode>`

Select how aggressively to trim the cache. Choices include:

`clear`: Remove the entire cache, trimming down to the state of a
freshly extracted dataset

`trim` _(default)_: Trim everything except explicitly "cached"
predicates.

`fit`: Simply make sure the defined size limits for the disk cache are
observed, deleting as many intermediates as necessary.

#### `--cleanup-upgrade-backups`

Delete any backup directories resulting from database upgrades.

### Common options

#### `-h, --help`

Show this help text.

#### `-J=<opt>`

\[Advanced] Give option to the JVM running the command.

(Beware that options containing spaces will not be handled correctly.)

#### `-v, --verbose`

Incrementally increase the number of progress messages printed.

#### `-q, --quiet`

Incrementally decrease the number of progress messages printed.

#### `--verbosity=<level>`

\[Advanced] Explicitly set the verbosity level to one of errors,
warnings, progress, progress+, progress++, progress+++. Overrides `-v`
and `-q`.

#### `--logdir=<dir>`

\[Advanced] Write detailed logs to one or more files in the given
directory, with generated names that include timestamps and the name of
the running subcommand.

(To write a log file with a name you have full control over, instead
give `--log-to-stderr` and redirect stderr as desired.)

#### `--common-caches=<dir>`

\[Advanced] Controls the location of cached data on disk that will
persist between several runs of the CLI, such as downloaded QL packs and
compiled query plans. If not set explicitly, this defaults to a
directory named `.codeql` in the user's home directory; it will be
created if it doesn't already exist.

Available since `v2.15.2`.
