---
title: dataset import
versions: # DO NOT MANUALLY EDIT. CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN BY A 🤖
  fpt: '*'
  ghae: '*'
  ghec: '*'
  ghes: '*'
topics:
  - Advanced Security
  - Code scanning
  - CodeQL
type: reference
product: '{% data reusables.gated-features.codeql %}'
autogenerated: codeql-cli
intro: '[Plumbing] Import a set of TRAP files to a raw dataset.'
redirect_from:
  - /code-security/codeql-cli/manual/dataset-import
---


<!-- Content after this section is automatically generated -->

{% data reusables.codeql-cli.man-pages-version-note %}

## Synopsis

```shell copy
codeql dataset import --dbscheme=<file> [--threads=<num>] <options>... -- <dataset> <trap>...
```

## Description

\[Plumbing] Import a set of TRAP files to a raw dataset.

Create a dataset by populating it with TRAP files, or add data from TRAP
files to an existing dataset. Updating a dataset is only possible if it
has the correct dbscheme _and_ its ID pool has been preserved from the
initial import.

## Options

### Primary Options

#### `<dataset>`

\[Mandatory] Path to the raw QL dataset to create or update. The
directory will be created if it doesn't already exist.

#### `<trap>...`

Paths to .trap(.gz) files to import, or to directories that will be
recursively scanned for .trap(.gz) files. If no files are given, an
empty dataset will be created.

#### `-S, --dbscheme=<file>`

\[Mandatory] The dbscheme definition that describes the TRAP files you
want to import.

#### `-j, --threads=<num>`

Use this many threads for the import operation.

Defaults to 1. You can pass 0 to use one thread per core on the machine,
or -_N_ to leave _N_ cores unused (except still use at least one
thread).

#### `--[no-]check-undefined-labels`

\[Advanced] Report errors for undefined labels.

#### `--[no-]check-unused-labels`

\[Advanced] Report errors for unused labels.

#### `--[no-]check-repeated-labels`

\[Advanced] Report errors for repeated labels.

#### `--[no-]check-redefined-labels`

\[Advanced] Report errors for redefined labels.

#### `--[no-]check-use-before-definition`

\[Advanced] Report errors for labels used before they're defined.

#### `--[no-]fail-on-trap-errors`

\[Advanced] Exit non-zero if an error occurs during trap import.

#### `--[no-]include-location-in-star`

\[Advanced] Construct entity IDs that encode the location in the TRAP
file they came from. Can be useful for debugging of TRAP generators, but
takes up a lot of space in the dataset.

### Common options

#### `-h, --help`

Show this help text.

#### `-J=<opt>`

\[Advanced] Give option to the JVM running the command.

(Beware that options containing spaces will not be handled correctly.)

#### `-v, --verbose`

Incrementally increase the number of progress messages printed.

#### `-q, --quiet`

Incrementally decrease the number of progress messages printed.

#### `--verbosity=<level>`

\[Advanced] Explicitly set the verbosity level to one of errors,
warnings, progress, progress+, progress++, progress+++. Overrides `-v`
and `-q`.

#### `--logdir=<dir>`

\[Advanced] Write detailed logs to one or more files in the given
directory, with generated names that include timestamps and the name of
the running subcommand.

(To write a log file with a name you have full control over, instead
give `--log-to-stderr` and redirect stderr as desired.)
