---
title: github upload-results
versions: # DO NOT MANUALLY EDIT. CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN BY A 🤖
  fpt: '*'
  ghae: '*'
  ghec: '*'
  ghes: '*'
topics:
  - Advanced Security
  - Code scanning
  - CodeQL
type: reference
product: '{% data reusables.gated-features.codeql %}'
autogenerated: codeql-cli
intro: Uploads a SARIF file to GitHub code scanning.
redirect_from:
  - /code-security/codeql-cli/manual/github-upload-results
---


<!-- Content after this section is automatically generated -->

{% data reusables.codeql-cli.man-pages-version-note %}

## Synopsis

```shell copy
codeql github upload-results --sarif=<file> [--github-auth-stdin] [--github-url=<url>] [--repository=<repository-name>] [--ref=<ref>] [--commit=<commit>] [--checkout-path=<path>] <options>...
```

## Description

Uploads a SARIF file to GitHub code scanning.

See:
<https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/secure-coding/running-codeql-cli-in-your-ci-system#uploading-results-to-github>

A GitHub Apps token or personal access token must be set. For best
security practices, it is recommended to set the `--github-auth-stdin`
flag and pass the token to the command through standard input.
Alternatively, the `GITHUB_TOKEN` environment variable can be set.

This token must have the `security_events` scope.

## Options

### Primary Options

#### `-s, --sarif=<file>`

\[Mandatory] Path to the SARIF file to upload. This should be the
output of [codeql database analyze](/code-security/codeql-cli/codeql-cli-manual/database-analyze) (or [codeql database interpret-results](/code-security/codeql-cli/codeql-cli-manual/database-interpret-results)) with `--format sarif-latest` for upload to github.com or
GitHub AE, or the appropriate supported format tag for GitHub Enterprise
Server instances (see <https://docs.github.com/> for the right value for
your release).

#### `-r, --repository=<repository-name>`

GitHub repository owner and name (e.g., _github/octocat_) to use as an
endpoint for uploading. The CLI will attempt to autodetect this from the
checkout path if it is omitted.

#### `-f, --ref=<ref>`

Name of the ref that was analyzed. If this ref is a pull request merge
commit, then use _refs/pulls/1234/merge_ or _refs/pulls/1234/head_
(depending on whether or not this commit corresponds to the HEAD or
MERGE commit of the PR). Otherwise, this should be a branch:
_refs/heads/branch-name_. If omitted, the CLI will attempt to
automatically populate this from the current branch of the checkout
path, if this exists.

#### `-c, --commit=<commit>`

SHA of commit that was analyzed. If this is omitted the CLI will attempt
to autodetect this from the checkout path.

#### `-p, --checkout-path=<path>`

Checkout path. Default is the current working directory.

#### `--merge`

\[Advanced] Allow more than one SARIF file to be specified, and merge
these into a single file before uploading. This is only recommended for
backwards compatibility. For new analyses it is recommended to upload
two separate SARIF files with different categories. This option only
works in conjunction with SARIF files produced by CodeQL with SARIF
version 2.1.0 (this is the default version of SARIF used by CodeQL).

#### `--format=<fmt>`

Select output format. Choices include:

`text` _(default)_: Print the URL for tracking the status of the SARIF
upload.

`json`: Print the response body of the SARIF upload API request.

See also:
<https://docs.github.com/en/rest/reference/code-scanning#upload-an-analysis-as-sarif-data>

### Options to configure where to upload SARIF files.

#### `-a, --github-auth-stdin`

Accept a GitHub Apps token or personal access token via standard input.

This overrides the GITHUB\_TOKEN environment variable.

#### `-g, --github-url=<url>`

URL of the GitHub instance to use. If omitted, the CLI will attempt to
autodetect this from the checkout path and if this is not possible
default to <https://github.com/>

### Common options

#### `-h, --help`

Show this help text.

#### `-J=<opt>`

\[Advanced] Give option to the JVM running the command.

(Beware that options containing spaces will not be handled correctly.)

#### `-v, --verbose`

Incrementally increase the number of progress messages printed.

#### `-q, --quiet`

Incrementally decrease the number of progress messages printed.

#### `--verbosity=<level>`

\[Advanced] Explicitly set the verbosity level to one of errors,
warnings, progress, progress+, progress++, progress+++. Overrides `-v`
and `-q`.

#### `--logdir=<dir>`

\[Advanced] Write detailed logs to one or more files in the given
directory, with generated names that include timestamps and the name of
the running subcommand.

(To write a log file with a name you have full control over, instead
give `--log-to-stderr` and redirect stderr as desired.)
