---
title: pack ci
versions: # DO NOT MANUALLY EDIT. CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN BY A ðŸ¤–
  fpt: '*'
  ghec: '*'
  ghes: '*'
topics:
  - Advanced Security
  - Code scanning
  - CodeQL
type: reference
product: '{% data reusables.gated-features.codeql %}'
autogenerated: codeql-cli
intro: |-
  Install dependencies for this pack, verifying that the
  existing lock file is up to date.
redirect_from:
  - /code-security/codeql-cli/manual/pack-ci
---


<!-- Content after this section is automatically generated -->

{% data reusables.codeql-cli.man-pages-version-note %}

## Synopsis

```shell copy
codeql pack ci [--force] <options>... -- <dir>
```

## Description

Clean install dependencies for this pack, verifying that the existing
lock file is up to date.

This command installs the dependencies of the pack, using the versions
specified in the codeql-pack.lock.yml file. If any of the versions
specified in the lock file are incompatible with the version constraints
specified in the qlpack.yml file, or if no lock file is present, this
command fails.

This command is similar to `codeql pack install`, except it's meant to
be used in automated environments such as test platforms, continuous
integration, and deployment -- or any situation where you want to make
sure you're doing a clean install of your dependencies.

Available since `v2.12.4`.

## Options

### Primary Options

#### `<dir>`

The root directory of the package.

#### `--format=<fmt>`

Select output format, either `text` _(default)_ or `json`.

#### `-f, --[no-]force`

Allow overwriting already existing packs.

#### `--[no-]allow-prerelease`

Allow packs with pre-release version qualifiers (e.g.,
`X.Y.Z-qualifier`) to be used. Without this flag, pre-release packs will
be ignored.

Available since `v2.11.3`.

#### `--lock-override=<file>`

\[Advanced] Specifies an alternate lock file to use as the input to
dependency resolution.

#### `--lock-output=<file>`

\[Advanced] Specifies an alternate location to save the lock file
generated by dependency resolution.

Available since `v2.14.1`.

#### `--no-strict-mode`

\[Advanced] Turn off strict mode to avoid a warning when resolving
packages from the `--additional-packs`

and other locally resolved locations. Packages resolved locally are
never downloaded

and will not be added to the package lock.

### Options for resolving QL packs outside of the package registry

#### `--search-path=<dir>[:<dir>...]`

A list of directories under which QL packs may be found. Each directory
can either be a QL pack (or bundle of packs containing a
`.codeqlmanifest.json` file at the root) or the immediate parent of one
or more such directories.

If the path contains more than one directory, their order defines
precedence between them: when a pack name that must be resolved is
matched in more than one of the directory trees, the one given first
wins.

Pointing this at a checkout of the open-source CodeQL repository ought
to work when querying one of the languages that live there.

If you have checked out the CodeQL repository as a sibling of the
unpacked CodeQL toolchain, you don't need to give this option; such
sibling directories will always be searched for QL packs that cannot be
found otherwise. (If this default does not work, it is strongly
recommended to set up `--search-path` once and for all in a per-user
configuration file).

(Note: On Windows the path separator is `;`).

#### `--additional-packs=<dir>[:<dir>...]`

If this list of directories is given, they will be searched for packs
before the ones in `--search-path`. The order between these doesn't
matter; it is an error if a pack name is found in two different places
through this list.

This is useful if you're temporarily developing a new version of a pack
that also appears in the default path. On the other hand, it is _not
recommended_ to override this option in a config file; some internal
actions will add this option on the fly, overriding any configured
value.

(Note: On Windows the path separator is `;`).

### Options for configuring the CodeQL package manager

#### `--registries-auth-stdin`

Authenticate to GitHub Enterprise Server Container registries by passing
a comma-separated list of \<registry\_url>=\<token> pairs.

For example, you can pass
`https://containers.GHEHOSTNAME1/v2/=TOKEN1,https://containers.GHEHOSTNAME2/v2/=TOKEN2`
to authenticate to two GitHub Enterprise Server instances.

This overrides the CODEQL\_REGISTRIES\_AUTH and GITHUB\_TOKEN environment
variables. If you only need to authenticate to the github.com Container
registry, you can instead authenticate using the simpler
`--github-auth-stdin` option.

#### `--github-auth-stdin`

Authenticate to the github.com Container registry by passing a
github.com GitHub Apps token or personal access token via standard
input.

To authenticate to GitHub Enterprise Server Container registries, pass
`--registries-auth-stdin` or use the CODEQL\_REGISTRIES\_AUTH environment
variable.

This overrides the GITHUB\_TOKEN environment variable.

### Common options

#### `-h, --help`

Show this help text.

#### `-J=<opt>`

\[Advanced] Give option to the JVM running the command.

(Beware that options containing spaces will not be handled correctly.)

#### `-v, --verbose`

Incrementally increase the number of progress messages printed.

#### `-q, --quiet`

Incrementally decrease the number of progress messages printed.

#### `--verbosity=<level>`

\[Advanced] Explicitly set the verbosity level to one of errors,
warnings, progress, progress+, progress++, progress+++. Overrides `-v`
and `-q`.

#### `--logdir=<dir>`

\[Advanced] Write detailed logs to one or more files in the given
directory, with generated names that include timestamps and the name of
the running subcommand.

(To write a log file with a name you have full control over, instead
give `--log-to-stderr` and redirect stderr as desired.)

#### `--common-caches=<dir>`

\[Advanced] Controls the location of cached data on disk that will
persist between several runs of the CLI, such as downloaded QL packs and
compiled query plans. If not set explicitly, this defaults to a
directory named `.codeql` in the user's home directory; it will be
created if it doesn't already exist.

Available since `v2.15.2`.
