---
title: query compile
versions: # DO NOT MANUALLY EDIT. CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN BY A 🤖
  fpt: '*'
  ghae: '*'
  ghec: '*'
  ghes: '*'
topics:
  - Advanced Security
  - Code scanning
  - CodeQL
type: reference
product: '{% data reusables.gated-features.codeql %}'
autogenerated: codeql-cli
intro: Compile or check QL code.
redirect_from:
  - /code-security/codeql-cli/manual/query-compile
---


<!-- Content after this section is automatically generated -->

{% data reusables.codeql-cli.man-pages-version-note %}

## Synopsis

```shell copy
codeql query compile [--check-only] [--keep-going] [--threads=<num>] [--ram=<MB>] <options>... -- <file>...
```

## Description

Compile or check QL code.

Compile one or more queries. Usually the main outcome of this command is
that the compiled version of the query is written to a _compilation
cache_ where it will be found when the query is later executed. Other
output options are mostly for debugging.

## Options

### Primary Options

#### `<file>...`

\[Mandatory] Queries to compile. Each argument is one of:

- A .ql file to compile.
- A directory which will be searched recursively for .ql files.
- A .qls file that defines a particular set of queries.
- The basename of a "well-known" .qls file exported by one of the
  installed QL packs.

#### `-n, --check-only`

Just check that the QL is valid and print any errors; do not actually
optimize and store a query plan. This can be much faster than a full
compilation.

#### `--[no-]precompile`

\[Advanced] Save each compiled query as a binary `.qlx` file next to
the `.ql` source.

This is only supposed to be used while preparing a query pack for
distribution (in which case it is used automatically by [codeql pack publish](/code-security/codeql-cli/codeql-cli-manual/pack-publish)). Once the `.qlx` files exist, later commands that execute queries may ignore
changes to the QL source in favor of the precompiled version.

Some rarely used compilation options are incompatible with this and will
lead to a run-time error.

Available since `v2.12.0`.

#### `--[no-]dump-dil`

\[Advanced] Print the optimized DIL intermediate representation to
standard output while compiling.

When JSON output is selected, the DIL will be represented as an array of
single-line strings, with some wrapping to identify which query is being
compiled.

#### `-k, --[no-]keep-going`

Keep going with compilation even if an error is found.

#### `--[no-]dump-ra`

\[Advanced] Print the optimized RA query plan to standard output while
compiling.

When JSON output is selected, the RA will be represented as an array of
single-line strings, with some wrapping to identify which query is being
compiled.

#### `--format=<fmt>`

Select output format, either `text` _(default)_ or `json`.

#### `-j, --threads=<num>`

Use this many threads to compile queries.

Defaults to 1. You can pass 0 to use one thread per core on the machine,
or -_N_ to leave _N_ cores unused (except still use at least one
thread).

#### `-M, --ram=<MB>`

Set total amount of RAM the compiler should be allowed to use.

### QL variant and compiler control options

#### `--warnings=<mode>`

How to handle warnings from the QL compiler. One of:

`hide`: Suppress warnings.

`show` _(default)_: Print warnings but continue with compilation.

`error`: Treat warnings as errors.

#### `--no-debug-info`

Don't emit source location info in RA for debugging.

#### `--[no-]fast-compilation`

\[Deprecated] \[Advanced] Omit particularly slow optimization steps.

#### `--no-release-compatibility`

\[Advanced] Use the newest compiler features, at the cost of
portability.

From time to time, new QL language features and evaluator optimizations
will be supported by the QL evaluator a few releases before they are
enabled by default in the QL compiler. This helps ensure that the
performance you experience when developing queries in the newest CodeQL
release can be matched by slightly older releases that may still be in
use for Code Scanning or CI integrations.

If you do not care about your queries being compatible with other
(earlier or later) CodeQL releases, you can sometimes achieve a small
amount of extra performance by using this flag to enable recent
improvements in the compiler early.

In releases where there are no recent improvements to enable, this
option silently does nothing. Thus it is safe to set it once and for all
in your global CodeQL config file.

Available since `v2.11.1`.

#### `--[no-]local-checking`

Only perform initial checks on the part of the QL source that is used.

#### `--no-metadata-verification`

Don't check embedded query metadata in QLDoc comments for validity.

#### `--compilation-cache-size=<MB>`

\[Advanced] Override the default maximum size for a compilation cache
directory.

### Options to set up compilation environment

#### `--search-path=<dir>[:<dir>...]`

A list of directories under which QL packs may be found. Each directory
can either be a QL pack (or bundle of packs containing a
`.codeqlmanifest.json` file at the root) or the immediate parent of one
or more such directories.

If the path contains more than one directory, their order defines
precedence between them: when a pack name that must be resolved is
matched in more than one of the directory trees, the one given first
wins.

Pointing this at a checkout of the open-source CodeQL repository ought
to work when querying one of the languages that live there.

If you have checked out the CodeQL repository as a sibling of the
unpacked CodeQL toolchain, you don't need to give this option; such
sibling directories will always be searched for QL packs that cannot be
found otherwise. (If this default does not work, it is strongly
recommended to set up `--search-path` once and for all in a per-user
configuration file).

(Note: On Windows the path separator is `;`).

#### `--additional-packs=<dir>[:<dir>...]`

If this list of directories is given, they will be searched for packs
before the ones in `--search-path`. The order between these doesn't
matter; it is an error if a pack name is found in two different places
through this list.

This is useful if you're temporarily developing a new version of a pack
that also appears in the default path. On the other hand, it is _not
recommended_ to override this option in a config file; some internal
actions will add this option on the fly, overriding any configured
value.

(Note: On Windows the path separator is `;`).

#### `--library-path=<dir>[:<dir>...]`

\[Advanced] An optional list of directories that will be added to the
raw import search path for QL libraries. This should only be used if
you're using QL libraries that have not been packaged as QL packs.

(Note: On Windows the path separator is `;`).

#### `--dbscheme=<file>`

\[Advanced] Explicitly define which dbscheme queries should be compiled
against. This should only be given by callers that are extremely sure
what they're doing.

#### `--compilation-cache=<dir>`

\[Advanced] Specify an additional directory to use as a compilation
cache.

#### `--no-default-compilation-cache`

\[Advanced] Don't use compilation caches in standard locations such as
in the QL pack containing the query or in the CodeQL toolchain
directory.

### Options for configuring the CodeQL package manager

#### `--registries-auth-stdin`

Authenticate to GitHub Enterprise Server Container registries by passing
a comma-separated list of \<registry\_url>=\<token> pairs.

For example, you can pass
`https://containers.GHEHOSTNAME1/v2/=TOKEN1,https://containers.GHEHOSTNAME2/v2/=TOKEN2`
to authenticate to two GitHub Enterprise Server instances.

This overrides the CODEQL\_REGISTRIES\_AUTH and GITHUB\_TOKEN environment
variables. If you only need to authenticate to the github.com Container
registry, you can instead authenticate using the simpler
`--github-auth-stdin` option.

#### `--github-auth-stdin`

Authenticate to the github.com Container registry by passing a
github.com GitHub Apps token or personal access token via standard
input.

To authenticate to GitHub Enterprise Server Container registries, pass
`--registries-auth-stdin` or use the CODEQL\_REGISTRIES\_AUTH environment
variable.

This overrides the GITHUB\_TOKEN environment variable.

### Common options

#### `-h, --help`

Show this help text.

#### `-J=<opt>`

\[Advanced] Give option to the JVM running the command.

(Beware that options containing spaces will not be handled correctly.)

#### `-v, --verbose`

Incrementally increase the number of progress messages printed.

#### `-q, --quiet`

Incrementally decrease the number of progress messages printed.

#### `--verbosity=<level>`

\[Advanced] Explicitly set the verbosity level to one of errors,
warnings, progress, progress+, progress++, progress+++. Overrides `-v`
and `-q`.

#### `--logdir=<dir>`

\[Advanced] Write detailed logs to one or more files in the given
directory, with generated names that include timestamps and the name of
the running subcommand.

(To write a log file with a name you have full control over, instead
give `--log-to-stderr` and redirect stderr as desired.)
