---
title: resolve upgrades
versions: # DO NOT MANUALLY EDIT. CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN BY A 🤖
  fpt: '*'
  ghae: '*'
  ghec: '*'
  ghes: '*'
topics:
  - Advanced Security
  - Code scanning
  - CodeQL
type: reference
product: '{% data reusables.gated-features.codeql %}'
autogenerated: codeql-cli
intro: '[Deep plumbing] Determine upgrades to run for a raw dataset.'
redirect_from:
  - /code-security/codeql-cli/manual/resolve-upgrades
---


<!-- Content after this section is automatically generated -->

{% data reusables.codeql-cli.man-pages-version-note %}

## Synopsis

```shell copy
codeql resolve upgrades --dbscheme=<file> <options>...
```

## Description

\[Deep plumbing] Determine upgrades to run for a raw dataset.

Determine which upgrades need to be performed on a particular raw QL
dataset to bring it up to the state of the configured QL libraries. This
computation is part of what happens during an ordinary database upgrade,
and is exposed as a separate plumbing command in order to (a) help with
troubleshooting, and (b) provide a starting point for modifying the path
in extraordinary cases where exact control is needed.

## Options

### Primary Options

#### `--dbscheme=<file>`

\[Mandatory] The _current_ dbscheme of the dataset we want to upgrade.

#### `--format=<fmt>`

Select output format. Choices include:

`lines` _(default)_: Print upgrade scripts on one line each.

`json`: Print a JSON array of upgrade script paths.

#### `--just-check`

Don't print any output, but exit with code 0 if there are upgrades to
do, and code 1 if there are none.

### Options from the invoking command's command line

#### `--search-path=<dir>[:<dir>...]`

A list of directories under which QL packs containing upgrade recipes
may be found. Each directory can either be a QL pack (or bundle of packs
containing a `.codeqlmanifest.json` file at the root) or the immediate
parent of one or more such directories.

If the path contains directories trees, their order defines precedence
between them: if a pack name that must be resolved is matched in more
than one of the directory trees, the one given first wins.

Pointing this at a checkout of the open-source CodeQL repository ought
to work when querying one of the languages that live there.

(Note: On Windows the path separator is `;`).

#### `--additional-packs=<dir>[:<dir>...]`

\[Advanced] If this list of directories is given, they will be searched
for upgrades before the ones in `--search-path`. The order between these
doesn't matter; it is an error if a pack name is found in two different
places through this list.

This is useful if you're temporarily developing a new version of a pack
that also appears in the default path. On the other hand it is _not
recommended_ to override this option in a config file; some internal
actions will add this option on the fly, overriding any configured
value.

(Note: On Windows the path separator is `;`).

#### `--target-dbscheme=<file>`

The _target_ dbscheme we want to upgrade to. If this is not given, a
maximal upgrade path will be constructed

#### `--target-sha=<sha>`

\[Advanced] An alternative to `--target-dbscheme` that gives the
internal hash of the target dbscheme instead of the dbscheme file.

#### `--[no-]allow-downgrades`

Include any relevant downgrades if there are no upgrades

### Common options

#### `-h, --help`

Show this help text.

#### `-J=<opt>`

\[Advanced] Give option to the JVM running the command.

(Beware that options containing spaces will not be handled correctly.)

#### `-v, --verbose`

Incrementally increase the number of progress messages printed.

#### `-q, --quiet`

Incrementally decrease the number of progress messages printed.

#### `--verbosity=<level>`

\[Advanced] Explicitly set the verbosity level to one of errors,
warnings, progress, progress+, progress++, progress+++. Overrides `-v`
and `-q`.

#### `--logdir=<dir>`

\[Advanced] Write detailed logs to one or more files in the given
directory, with generated names that include timestamps and the name of
the running subcommand.

(To write a log file with a name you have full control over, instead
give `--log-to-stderr` and redirect stderr as desired.)
