---
title: resolve extensions
versions: # DO NOT MANUALLY EDIT. CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN BY A 🤖
  fpt: '*'
  ghec: '*'
  ghes: '*'
topics:
  - Advanced Security
  - Code scanning
  - CodeQL
type: reference
product: '{% data reusables.gated-features.codeql %}'
autogenerated: codeql-cli
intro: |-
  [Experimental] [Deep plumbing] Determine accessible extensions. This
  includes machine learning models and data extensions.
redirect_from:
  - /code-security/codeql-cli/manual/resolve-extensions
---


<!-- Content after this section is automatically generated -->

{% data reusables.codeql-cli.man-pages-version-note %}

## Synopsis

```shell copy
codeql resolve extensions <options>... -- <query|dir|suite|pack>...
```

## Description

\[Deep plumbing] Determine accessible extensions. This includes machine
learning models and data extensions.

This plumbing command resolves the set of data extensions and
GitHub-created machine learning models that are available to the query
specifiers passed in as command line arguments.

## Options

### Primary Options

#### `<querysuite|pack>...`

\[Mandatory] Queries to execute. Each argument is in the form
`scope/name@range:path` where:

* `scope/name` is the qualified name of a CodeQL pack.
* `range` is a semver range.
* `path` is a file system path.

If a `scope/name` is specified, the `range` and `path` are optional. A
missing `range` implies the latest version of the specified pack. A
missing `path` implies the default query suite of the specified pack.

The `path` can be one of a `*.ql` query file, a directory containing one
or more queries, or a `.qls` query suite file. If there is no pack name
specified, then a `path` must be provided, and will be interpreted
relative to the current working directory of the current process.

To specify a `path` that contains a literal `@` or `:`, use `path:` as a
prefix to the argument, like this: `path:directory/with:and@/chars`.

If a `scope/name` and `path` are specified, then the `path` cannot be
absolute. It is considered relative to the root of the CodeQL pack.

#### `--search-path=<dir>[:<dir>...]`

A list of directories under which QL packs may be found. Each directory
can either be a QL pack (or bundle of packs containing a
`.codeqlmanifest.json` file at the root) or the immediate parent of one
or more such directories.

If the path contains more than one directory, their order defines
precedence between them: when a pack name that must be resolved is
matched in more than one of the directory trees, the one given first
wins.

Pointing this at a checkout of the open-source CodeQL repository ought
to work when querying one of the languages that live there.

If you have checked out the CodeQL repository as a sibling of the
unpacked CodeQL toolchain, you don't need to give this option; such
sibling directories will always be searched for QL packs that cannot be
found otherwise. (If this default does not work, it is strongly
recommended to set up `--search-path` once and for all in a per-user
configuration file).

(Note: On Windows the path separator is `;`).

#### `--additional-packs=<dir>[:<dir>...]`

If this list of directories is given, they will be searched for packs
before the ones in `--search-path`. The order between these doesn't
matter; it is an error if a pack name is found in two different places
through this list.

This is useful if you're temporarily developing a new version of a pack
that also appears in the default path. On the other hand, it is _not
recommended_ to override this option in a config file; some internal
actions will add this option on the fly, overriding any configured
value.

(Note: On Windows the path separator is `;`).

#### `--model-packs=<`<name@range>>...

A list of CodeQL pack names, each with an optional version range, to be
used as model packs to customize the queries that are about to be
evaluated.

#### `--threat-model=<name>...`

A list of threat models to enable or disable.

The argument is the name of a threat model, optionally preceded by a
'!'. If no '!' is present, the named threat model and all of its
descendants are enabled. If a '!' is present, the named threat model
and all of its descendants are disabled.

The 'default' threat model is enabled by default, but can be disabled
by specifying '--threat-model !default'.

The 'all' threat model can be used to enable or disable all threat
models.

The --threat-model options are processed in order. For example,
'--threat-model local --threat-model !environment' enables all of
the threat models in the 'local' group except for the 'environment'
threat model.

This option only has an effect for languages that support threat models.

Available since `v2.15.3`.

### Options for configuring the CodeQL package manager

#### `--registries-auth-stdin`

Authenticate to GitHub Enterprise Server Container registries by passing
a comma-separated list of \<registry\_url>=\<token> pairs.

For example, you can pass
`https://containers.GHEHOSTNAME1/v2/=TOKEN1,https://containers.GHEHOSTNAME2/v2/=TOKEN2`
to authenticate to two GitHub Enterprise Server instances.

This overrides the CODEQL\_REGISTRIES\_AUTH and GITHUB\_TOKEN environment
variables. If you only need to authenticate to the github.com Container
registry, you can instead authenticate using the simpler
`--github-auth-stdin` option.

#### `--github-auth-stdin`

Authenticate to the github.com Container registry by passing a
github.com GitHub Apps token or personal access token via standard
input.

To authenticate to GitHub Enterprise Server Container registries, pass
`--registries-auth-stdin` or use the CODEQL\_REGISTRIES\_AUTH environment
variable.

This overrides the GITHUB\_TOKEN environment variable.

### Common options

#### `-h, --help`

Show this help text.

#### `-J=<opt>`

\[Advanced] Give option to the JVM running the command.

(Beware that options containing spaces will not be handled correctly.)

#### `-v, --verbose`

Incrementally increase the number of progress messages printed.

#### `-q, --quiet`

Incrementally decrease the number of progress messages printed.

#### `--verbosity=<level>`

\[Advanced] Explicitly set the verbosity level to one of errors,
warnings, progress, progress+, progress++, progress+++. Overrides `-v`
and `-q`.

#### `--logdir=<dir>`

\[Advanced] Write detailed logs to one or more files in the given
directory, with generated names that include timestamps and the name of
the running subcommand.

(To write a log file with a name you have full control over, instead
give `--log-to-stderr` and redirect stderr as desired.)

#### `--common-caches=<dir>`

\[Advanced] Controls the location of cached data on disk that will
persist between several runs of the CLI, such as downloaded QL packs and
compiled query plans. If not set explicitly, this defaults to a
directory named `.codeql` in the user's home directory; it will be
created if it doesn't already exist.

Available since `v2.15.2`.
