---
title: resolve languages
versions: # DO NOT MANUALLY EDIT. CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN BY A 🤖
  fpt: '*'
  ghae: '*'
  ghec: '*'
  ghes: '*'
topics:
  - Advanced Security
  - Code scanning
  - CodeQL
type: reference
product: '{% data reusables.gated-features.codeql %}'
autogenerated: codeql-cli
intro: List installed CodeQL extractor packs.
redirect_from:
  - /code-security/codeql-cli/manual/resolve-languages
---


<!-- Content after this section is automatically generated -->

{% data reusables.codeql-cli.man-pages-version-note %}

## Synopsis

```shell copy
codeql resolve languages <options>...
```

## Description

List installed CodeQL extractor packs.

When run with JSON output selected, this command can report multiple
locations for each extractor pack name. When that happens, it means that
the pack has conflicting locations within a single search element, so it
cannot actually be resolved. The caller may use the actual locations to
format an appropriate error message.

## Options

### Primary Options

#### `--search-path=<dir>[:<dir>...]`

A list of directories under which extractor packs may be found. The
directories can either be the extractor packs themselves or directories
that contain extractors as immediate subdirectories.

If the path contains multiple directory trees, their order defines
precedence between them: if the target language is matched in more than
one of the directory trees, the one given first wins.

The extractors bundled with the CodeQL toolchain itself will always be
found, but if you need to use separately distributed extractors you need
to give this option (or, better yet, set up `--search-path` in a
per-user configuration file).

(Note: On Windows the path separator is `;`).

#### `--format=<fmt>`

Select output format. Choices include:

`text` _(default)_: Print the paths to extractor packs to standard
output.

`json`: Print the paths to extractor packs as a JSON string.

`betterjson`: Print details about extractor packs as a JSON string.

### Common options

#### `-h, --help`

Show this help text.

#### `-J=<opt>`

\[Advanced] Give option to the JVM running the command.

(Beware that options containing spaces will not be handled correctly.)

#### `-v, --verbose`

Incrementally increase the number of progress messages printed.

#### `-q, --quiet`

Incrementally decrease the number of progress messages printed.

#### `--verbosity=<level>`

\[Advanced] Explicitly set the verbosity level to one of errors,
warnings, progress, progress+, progress++, progress+++. Overrides `-v`
and `-q`.

#### `--logdir=<dir>`

\[Advanced] Write detailed logs to one or more files in the given
directory, with generated names that include timestamps and the name of
the running subcommand.

(To write a log file with a name you have full control over, instead
give `--log-to-stderr` and redirect stderr as desired.)
