---
title: test extract
versions: # DO NOT MANUALLY EDIT. CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN BY A 🤖
  fpt: '*'
  ghec: '*'
  ghes: '*'
topics:
  - Advanced Security
  - Code scanning
  - CodeQL
type: reference
product: '{% data reusables.gated-features.codeql %}'
autogenerated: codeql-cli
intro: '[Plumbing] Build a dataset for a test directory.'
redirect_from:
  - /code-security/codeql-cli/manual/test-extract
---


<!-- Content after this section is automatically generated -->

{% data reusables.codeql-cli.man-pages-version-note %}

## Synopsis

```shell copy
codeql test extract <options>... -- <testDir>
```

## Description

\[Plumbing] Build a dataset for a test directory.

Build a database for a specified test directory, without actually
running any test queries. Outputs the path to the raw QL dataset to
execute test queries against.

## Options

### Primary Options

#### `<testDir>`

\[Mandatory] The path to the test directory.

#### `--database=<dir>`

Override the location of the database being created. By default it will
be a subdirectory whose name is derived from the name of the test
directory itself with '.testproj' appended.

#### `--search-path=<dir>[:<dir>...]`

A list of directories under which extractor packs may be found. The
directories can either be the extractor packs themselves or directories
that contain extractors as immediate subdirectories.

If the path contains multiple directory trees, their order defines
precedence between them: if the target language is matched in more than
one of the directory trees, the one given first wins.

The extractors bundled with the CodeQL toolchain itself will always be
found, but if you need to use separately distributed extractors you need
to give this option (or, better yet, set up `--search-path` in a
per-user configuration file).

(Note: On Windows the path separator is `;`).

#### `--cleanup`

Remove the test database instead of creating it.

#### `--[no-]show-extractor-output`

\[Advanced] Show the output from extractor scripts that create test
databases. This can be useful while developing or editing test cases.
Beware that it can cause duplicated or malformed output if you use this
with multiple threads!

#### `--[no-]check-undefined-labels`

\[Advanced] Report errors for undefined labels.

#### `--[no-]check-unused-labels`

\[Advanced] Report errors for unused labels.

#### `--[no-]check-repeated-labels`

\[Advanced] Report errors for repeated labels.

#### `--[no-]check-redefined-labels`

\[Advanced] Report errors for redefined labels.

#### `--[no-]check-use-before-definition`

\[Advanced] Report errors for labels used before they're defined.

#### `--[no-]fail-on-trap-errors`

\[Advanced] Exit non-zero if an error occurs during trap import.

#### `--[no-]include-location-in-star`

\[Advanced] Construct entity IDs that encode the location in the TRAP
file they came from. Can be useful for debugging of TRAP generators, but
takes up a lot of space in the dataset.

#### `--[no-]linkage-aware-import`

\[Advanced] Controls whether [codeql dataset import](/code-security/codeql-cli/codeql-cli-manual/dataset-import) is linkage-aware _(default)_ or not. On projects where this part of database creation
consumes too much memory, disabling this option may help them progress
at the expense of database completeness.

Available since `v2.15.3`.

#### `--format=<fmt>`

Select output format, either `text` _(default)_ or `json`.

### Common options

#### `-h, --help`

Show this help text.

#### `-J=<opt>`

\[Advanced] Give option to the JVM running the command.

(Beware that options containing spaces will not be handled correctly.)

#### `-v, --verbose`

Incrementally increase the number of progress messages printed.

#### `-q, --quiet`

Incrementally decrease the number of progress messages printed.

#### `--verbosity=<level>`

\[Advanced] Explicitly set the verbosity level to one of errors,
warnings, progress, progress+, progress++, progress+++. Overrides `-v`
and `-q`.

#### `--logdir=<dir>`

\[Advanced] Write detailed logs to one or more files in the given
directory, with generated names that include timestamps and the name of
the running subcommand.

(To write a log file with a name you have full control over, instead
give `--log-to-stderr` and redirect stderr as desired.)

#### `--common-caches=<dir>`

\[Advanced] Controls the location of cached data on disk that will
persist between several runs of the CLI, such as downloaded QL packs and
compiled query plans. If not set explicitly, this defaults to a
directory named `.codeql` in the user's home directory; it will be
created if it doesn't already exist.

Available since `v2.15.2`.
