---
title: test run
versions: # DO NOT MANUALLY EDIT. CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN BY A 🤖
  fpt: '*'
  ghec: '*'
  ghes: '*'
topics:
  - Advanced Security
  - Code scanning
  - CodeQL
type: reference
product: '{% data reusables.gated-features.codeql %}'
autogenerated: codeql-cli
intro: Run unit tests for QL queries.
redirect_from:
  - /code-security/codeql-cli/manual/test-run
---


<!-- Content after this section is automatically generated -->

{% data reusables.codeql-cli.man-pages-version-note %}

## Synopsis

```shell copy
codeql test run [--threads=<num>] [--ram=<MB>] <options>... -- <test|dir>...
```

## Description

Run unit tests for QL queries.

## Options

### Primary Options

#### `<test|dir>...`

Each argument is one of:

* A `.ql` or `.qlref` file that defines a test to run.
* A directory which will be searched recursively for tests to run.

#### `--failing-exitcode=<code>`

\[Advanced] Set the exit code to produce if any failures are
encountered. Usually 1, but tooling that parses the output may find it
useful to set it to 0.

#### `--format=<fmt>`

Select output format. Possible choices:

`text` _(default)_: A human-readable textual rendering.

`json`: A streamed JSON array of test result objects.

`betterjson`: A streamed JSON array of event objects.

`jsonz`: A stream of zero-terminated JSON test result objects.

`betterjsonz`: A stream of zero-terminated JSON event objects.

For the `betterjson` and `betterjsonz` formats, each event has a `type`
property specifying the type of the event. New event types may be added
in the future, so consumers should ignore any event with an unrecognized
`kind` property.

#### `--[no-]keep-databases`

\[Advanced] Preserve the databases extracted to run the test queries,
even where all tests in a directory pass. (The database will always be
left present when there are tests that _fail_).

#### `--[no-]fast-compilation`

\[Deprecated] \[Advanced] Omit particularly slow optimization steps
when compiling test queries.

#### `--[no-]learn`

\[Advanced] When a test produces unexpected output, instead of failing
it, update its `.expected` file to match the actual output, such that it
passes. Tests can still fail in this mode, for example if creation of a
test database to query does not succeed.

#### `--consistency-queries=<dir>`

\[Advanced] A directory with consistency queries that will be run for
each test database. These queries should not produce any output (except
when they find a problem) unless the test directory includes a
`CONSISTENCY` subdirectory with a `.expected` file. This is mostly
useful for testing extractors.

#### `--[no-]check-databases`

\[Advanced] Run
[codeql dataset check](/code-security/codeql-cli/codeql-cli-manual/dataset-check) over each test database created and report a failure if it detects inconsistencies. This is useful when testing extractors. If the check is (temporarily!) expected to fail for a particular database, place a `DB-CHECK.expected` file in the test directory.

#### `--[no-]show-extractor-output`

\[Advanced] Show the output from extractor scripts that create test
databases. This can be useful while developing or editing test cases.
Beware that it can cause duplicated or malformed output if you use this
with multiple threads!

#### `-M, --ram=<MB>`

Set total amount of RAM the test runner should be allowed to use.

#### `--slice=<N/M>`

\[Advanced] Divide the test cases into _M_ roughly equal-sized slices
and process only the _N_th of them. This can be used for manual
parallelization of the testing process.

#### `--[no-]strict-test-discovery`

\[Advanced] Only use queries that can be strongly identified as tests.
This mode tries to distinguish between `.ql` files that define unit
tests and `.ql` files that are meant to be useful queries. This option
is used by tools, such as IDEs, that need to identify all unit tests in
a directory tree without depending on previous knowledge of how the
files in it are arranged.

Within a QL pack whose `qlpack.yml` declares a `tests` directory, all
`.ql` files in that directory are considered tests, and `.ql` files
outside it are ignored. In a QL pack that doesn't declare a `tests`
directory, a `.ql` file is identified as a test only if it has a
corresponding `.expected` file.

For consistency, `.qlref` files are limited by the same rules as `.ql`
files even though a `.qlref` file cannot really be a non-test.

### Options to find libraries and extractors used by the tests

#### `--search-path=<dir>[:<dir>...]`

A list of directories under which QL packs may be found. Each directory
can either be a QL pack (or bundle of packs containing a
`.codeqlmanifest.json` file at the root) or the immediate parent of one
or more such directories.

If the path contains more than one directory, their order defines
precedence between them: when a pack name that must be resolved is
matched in more than one of the directory trees, the one given first
wins.

Pointing this at a checkout of the open-source CodeQL repository ought
to work when querying one of the languages that live there.

If you have checked out the CodeQL repository as a sibling of the
unpacked CodeQL toolchain, you don't need to give this option; such
sibling directories will always be searched for QL packs that cannot be
found otherwise. (If this default does not work, it is strongly
recommended to set up `--search-path` once and for all in a per-user
configuration file).

(Note: On Windows the path separator is `;`).

#### `--additional-packs=<dir>[:<dir>...]`

If this list of directories is given, they will be searched for packs
before the ones in `--search-path`. The order between these doesn't
matter; it is an error if a pack name is found in two different places
through this list.

This is useful if you're temporarily developing a new version of a pack
that also appears in the default path. On the other hand, it is _not
recommended_ to override this option in a config file; some internal
actions will add this option on the fly, overriding any configured
value.

(Note: On Windows the path separator is `;`).

#### `--library-path=<dir>[:<dir>...]`

\[Advanced] An optional list of directories that will be added to the
raw import search path for QL libraries. This should only be used if
you're using QL libraries that have not been packaged as QL packs.

(Note: On Windows the path separator is `;`).

#### `--dbscheme=<file>`

\[Advanced] Explicitly define which dbscheme queries should be compiled
against. This should only be given by callers that are extremely sure
what they're doing.

#### `--compilation-cache=<dir>`

\[Advanced] Specify an additional directory to use as a compilation
cache.

#### `--no-default-compilation-cache`

\[Advanced] Don't use compilation caches in standard locations such as
in the QL pack containing the query or in the CodeQL toolchain
directory.

### Options for configuring the CodeQL package manager

#### `--registries-auth-stdin`

Authenticate to GitHub Enterprise Server Container registries by passing
a comma-separated list of \<registry\_url>=\<token> pairs.

For example, you can pass
`https://containers.GHEHOSTNAME1/v2/=TOKEN1,https://containers.GHEHOSTNAME2/v2/=TOKEN2`
to authenticate to two GitHub Enterprise Server instances.

This overrides the CODEQL\_REGISTRIES\_AUTH and GITHUB\_TOKEN environment
variables. If you only need to authenticate to the github.com Container
registry, you can instead authenticate using the simpler
`--github-auth-stdin` option.

#### `--github-auth-stdin`

Authenticate to the github.com Container registry by passing a
github.com GitHub Apps token or personal access token via standard
input.

To authenticate to GitHub Enterprise Server Container registries, pass
`--registries-auth-stdin` or use the CODEQL\_REGISTRIES\_AUTH environment
variable.

This overrides the GITHUB\_TOKEN environment variable.

### Options to control query compilation

#### `--no-release-compatibility`

\[Advanced] Use the newest compiler features, at the cost of
portability.

From time to time, new QL language features and evaluator optimizations
will be supported by the QL evaluator a few releases before they are
enabled by default in the QL compiler. This helps ensure that the
performance you experience when developing queries in the newest CodeQL
release can be matched by slightly older releases that may still be in
use for Code Scanning or CI integrations.

If you do not care about your queries being compatible with other
(earlier or later) CodeQL releases, you can sometimes achieve a small
amount of extra performance by using this flag to enable recent
improvements in the compiler early.

In releases where there are no recent improvements to enable, this
option silently does nothing. Thus it is safe to set it once and for all
in your global CodeQL config file.

Available since `v2.11.1`.

### Options that control the evaluation of test queries

#### `--[no-]tuple-counting`

\[Advanced] Display tuple counts for each evaluation step in the query
evaluator logs. If the `--evaluator-log` option is provided, tuple
counts will be included in both the text-based and structured JSON logs
produced by the command. (This can be useful for performance
optimization of complex QL code).

#### `--timeout=<seconds>`

\[Advanced] Set the timeout length for query evaluation, in seconds.

The timeout feature is intended to catch cases where a complex query
would take "forever" to evaluate. It is not an effective way to limit
the total amount of time the query evaluation can take. The evaluation
will be allowed to continue as long as each separately timed part of the
computation completes within the timeout. Currently these separately
timed parts are "RA layers" of the optimized query, but that might
change in the future.

If no timeout is specified, or is given as 0, no timeout will be set
(except for [codeql test run](/code-security/codeql-cli/codeql-cli-manual/test-run), where the default timeout is 5 minutes).

#### `-j, --threads=<num>`

Use this many threads to evaluate queries.

Defaults to 1. You can pass 0 to use one thread per core on the machine,
or -_N_ to leave _N_ cores unused (except still use at least one
thread).

### Options for controlling outputting of structured evaluator logs

#### `--evaluator-log=<file>`

\[Advanced] Output structured logs about evaluator performance to the
given file. The format of this log file is subject to change with no
notice, but will be a stream of JSON objects separated by either two
newline characters (by default) or one if the `--evaluator-log-minify`
option is passed. Please use `codeql generate log-summary <file>` to
produce a more stable summary of this file, and avoid parsing the file
directly. The file will be overwritten if it already exists.

#### `--evaluator-log-minify`

\[Advanced] If the `--evaluator-log` option is passed, also passing
this option will minimize the size of the JSON log produced, at the
expense of making it much less human readable.

### Options for checking imported TRAP

#### `--[no-]check-undefined-labels`

\[Advanced] Report errors for undefined labels.

#### `--[no-]check-unused-labels`

\[Advanced] Report errors for unused labels.

#### `--[no-]check-repeated-labels`

\[Advanced] Report errors for repeated labels.

#### `--[no-]check-redefined-labels`

\[Advanced] Report errors for redefined labels.

#### `--[no-]check-use-before-definition`

\[Advanced] Report errors for labels used before they're defined.

#### `--[no-]fail-on-trap-errors`

\[Advanced] Exit non-zero if an error occurs during trap import.

#### `--[no-]include-location-in-star`

\[Advanced] Construct entity IDs that encode the location in the TRAP
file they came from. Can be useful for debugging of TRAP generators, but
takes up a lot of space in the dataset.

#### `--[no-]linkage-aware-import`

\[Advanced] Controls whether [codeql dataset import](/code-security/codeql-cli/codeql-cli-manual/dataset-import) is linkage-aware _(default)_ or not. On projects where this part of database creation
consumes too much memory, disabling this option may help them progress
at the expense of database completeness.

Available since `v2.15.3`.

### Common options

#### `-h, --help`

Show this help text.

#### `-J=<opt>`

\[Advanced] Give option to the JVM running the command.

(Beware that options containing spaces will not be handled correctly.)

#### `-v, --verbose`

Incrementally increase the number of progress messages printed.

#### `-q, --quiet`

Incrementally decrease the number of progress messages printed.

#### `--verbosity=<level>`

\[Advanced] Explicitly set the verbosity level to one of errors,
warnings, progress, progress+, progress++, progress+++. Overrides `-v`
and `-q`.

#### `--logdir=<dir>`

\[Advanced] Write detailed logs to one or more files in the given
directory, with generated names that include timestamps and the name of
the running subcommand.

(To write a log file with a name you have full control over, instead
give `--log-to-stderr` and redirect stderr as desired.)

#### `--common-caches=<dir>`

\[Advanced] Controls the location of cached data on disk that will
persist between several runs of the CLI, such as downloaded QL packs and
compiled query plans. If not set explicitly, this defaults to a
directory named `.codeql` in the user's home directory; it will be
created if it doesn't already exist.

Available since `v2.15.2`.
