---
title: Rate limits for the REST API
shortTitle: Rate limits
intro: 'Learn about REST API rate limits, how to avoid exceeding them, and what to do if you do exceed them.'
versions:
  fpt: '*'
  ghes: '*'
  ghec: '*'
topics:
  - API
redirect_from:
  - /rest/overview/rate-limits-for-the-rest-api
---

{% ifversion ghes %}

Rate limits are disabled by default for {% data variables.product.product_name %}. Contact your site administrator to confirm the rate limits for your instance.

If you are a site administrator, you can set rate limits for your instance. For more information, see "[AUTOTITLE](/admin/configuration/configuring-user-applications-for-your-enterprise/configuring-rate-limits)."

If you are developing an app for users or organizations outside of your instance, the standard {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom_the_website %} rate limits apply. For more information, see "[AUTOTITLE](/free-pro-team@latest/rest/overview/rate-limits-for-the-rest-api)" in the {% data variables.product.prodname_free_user %} documentation.

{% else %}

## About primary rate limits

{% data variables.product.company_short %} limits the number of REST API requests that you can make within a specific amount of time. This limit helps prevent abuse and denial-of-service attacks, and ensures that the API remains available for all users.

Some endpoints, like the search endpoints, have more restrictive limits. For more information about these endpoints, see "[AUTOTITLE](/rest/rate-limit/rate-limit)." The GraphQL API also has a separate primary rate limit. For more information, see "[AUTOTITLE](/graphql/overview/resource-limitations)."

In general, you can calculate your primary rate limit for the REST API based on your method of authentication, as described below.

### Primary rate limit for unauthenticated users

You can make unauthenticated requests if you are only fetching public data. Unauthenticated requests are associated with the originating IP address, not with the user or application that made the request.

The primary rate limit for unauthenticated requests is 60 requests per hour.

### Primary rate limit for authenticated users

You can use a {% data variables.product.pat_generic %} to make API requests. Additionally, you can authorize a {% data variables.product.prodname_github_app %} or {% data variables.product.prodname_oauth_app %}, which can then make API requests on your behalf.

All of these requests count towards your personal rate limit of 5,000 requests per hour. {% ifversion fpt or ghec %}Requests made on your behalf by a {% data variables.product.prodname_github_app %} that is owned by a {% data variables.product.prodname_ghe_cloud %} organization have a higher rate limit of 15,000 requests per hour. Similarly, requests made on your behalf by a {% data variables.product.prodname_oauth_app %} that is owned or approved by a {% data variables.product.prodname_ghe_cloud %} organization have a higher rate limit of 15,000 requests per hour if you are a member of the {% data variables.product.prodname_ghe_cloud %} organization.{% endif %}

### Primary rate limit for {% data variables.product.prodname_github_app %} installations

{% data variables.product.prodname_github_apps %} authenticating with an installation access token use the installation's minimum rate limit of 5,000 requests per hour. If the installation is on a {% data variables.product.prodname_ghe_cloud %} organization, the installation has a rate limit of 15,000 requests per hour.

For installations that are not on a {% data variables.product.prodname_ghe_cloud %} organization, the rate limit for the installation will scale with the number of users and repositories. Installations that have more than 20 repositories receive another 50 requests per hour for each repository. Installations that are on an organization that have more than 20 users receive another 50 requests per hour for each user. The rate limit cannot increase beyond 12,500 requests per hour.

Primary rate limits for {% data variables.product.prodname_github_app %} user access tokens (as opposed to installation access tokens) are dictated by the primary rate limits for the authenticated user. This rate limit is combined with any requests that another {% data variables.product.prodname_github_app %} or {% data variables.product.prodname_oauth_app %} makes on that user's behalf and any requests that the user makes with a {% data variables.product.pat_generic %}. For more information, see "[Primary rate limit for authenticated users](#primary-rate-limit-for-authenticated-users)."

### Primary rate limit for {% data variables.product.prodname_oauth_apps %}

Primary rate limits for OAuth access tokens generated by a {% data variables.product.prodname_oauth_app %} are dictated by the primary rate limits for authenticated users. This rate limit is combined with any requests that another {% data variables.product.prodname_github_app %} or {% data variables.product.prodname_oauth_app %} makes on that user's behalf and any requests that the user makes with a {% data variables.product.pat_generic %}. For more information, see "[Primary rate limit for authenticated users](#primary-rate-limit-for-authenticated-users)."

OAuth apps can also use their client ID and client secret to fetch public data. For example:

```shell
curl -u YOUR_CLIENT_ID:YOUR_CLIENT_SECRET -I {% data variables.product.rest_url %}/meta
```

For these requests, the rate limit is 5,000 requests per hour per {% data variables.product.prodname_oauth_app %}. If the app is owned by a {% data variables.product.prodname_ghe_cloud %} organization, the rate limit is 15,000 requests per hour.

{% note %}

**Note:** Never include your app's client secret in client-side code or in code that runs on a user device. The client secret can be used to generate OAuth access tokens for users who have authorized your app, so you should always keep the client secret secure.

{% endnote %}

### Primary rate limit for `GITHUB_TOKEN` in {% data variables.product.prodname_actions %}

You can use the built-in `GITHUB_TOKEN` to authenticate requests in GitHub Actions workflows. For more information, see "[AUTOTITLE](/actions/security-guides/automatic-token-authentication)."

The rate limit for `GITHUB_TOKEN` is 1,000 requests per hour per repository.{% ifversion fpt or ghec %} For requests to resources that belong to a {% data variables.product.prodname_ghe_cloud %} account, the limit is 15,000 requests per hour per repository.{% endif %}

## About secondary rate limits

{% data reusables.rest-api.secondary-rate-limit-rest-graphql %}

## Checking the status of your rate limit

You can use the headers that are sent with each response to determine the current status of your primary rate limit.

Header name | Description
-----------|-----------|
`x-ratelimit-limit` | The maximum number of requests that you can make per hour
`x-ratelimit-remaining` | The number of requests remaining in the current rate limit window
`x-ratelimit-used` | The number of requests you have made in the current rate limit window
`x-ratelimit-reset` | The time at which the current rate limit window resets, in UTC epoch seconds
`x-ratelimit-resource` | The rate limit resource that the request counted against. For more information about the different resources, see "[AUTOTITLE](/rest/rate-limit/rate-limit#get-rate-limit-status-for-the-authenticated-user)."

You can also call the `GET /rate_limit` endpoint to check your rate limit. Calling this endpoint does not count against your primary rate limit, but it can count against your secondary rate limit. For more information, see "[AUTOTITLE](/rest/rate-limit/rate-limit)." When possible, you should use the rate limit response headers instead of calling the API to check your rate limit.

There is not a way to check the status of your secondary rate limit.

## Exceeding the rate limit

If you exceed your primary rate limit, you will receive a `403` or `429` response, and the `x-ratelimit-remaining` header will be `0`. You should not retry your request until after the time specified by the `x-ratelimit-reset` header.

If you exceed a secondary rate limit, you will receive a `403` or `429` response and an error message that indicates that you exceeded a secondary rate limit. If the `retry-after` response header is present, you should not retry your request until after that many seconds has elapsed. If the `x-ratelimit-remaining` header is `0`, you should not retry your request until after the time, in UTC epoch seconds, specified by the `x-ratelimit-reset` header. Otherwise, wait for at least one minute before retrying. If your request continues to fail due to a secondary rate limit, wait for an exponentially increasing amount of time between retries, and throw an error after a specific number of retries.

Continuing to make requests while you are rate limited may result in the banning of your integration.

## Staying under the rate limit

You should follow best practices to help you stay under the rate limits. For more information, see "[AUTOTITLE](/rest/guides/best-practices-for-using-the-rest-api)."

{% ifversion audit-log-streaming %}

You can also stream the audit log in order to view API requests. This can help you troubleshoot integrations that are exceeding the rate limit. For more information, see "[AUTOTITLE](/admin/monitoring-activity-in-your-enterprise/reviewing-audit-logs-for-your-enterprise/streaming-the-audit-log-for-your-enterprise)."

{% endif %}

## Getting a higher rate limit

If you want a higher primary rate limit, consider making authenticated requests instead of unauthenticated requests. Authenticated requests have a significantly higher rate limit than unauthenticated requests.

If you are using a {% data variables.product.pat_generic %} for automation in your organization, consider whether a {% data variables.product.prodname_github_app %} will work instead.{% ifversion fpt %} The rate limit for {% data variables.product.prodname_github_apps %} using an installation access token scales with the number of repositories and number of organization users.{% endif %}{% ifversion ghec %} {% data variables.product.prodname_github_apps %} used by {% data variables.product.prodname_ghe_cloud %} accounts have a higher rate limit than {% data variables.product.pat_generic_plural %}.{% endif %} For more information, see "[AUTOTITLE](/apps/creating-github-apps/about-creating-github-apps/about-creating-github-apps)."

{% ifversion fpt %}

If you are using {% data variables.product.prodname_github_apps %} or {% data variables.product.prodname_oauth_apps %}, consider upgrading to {% data variables.product.prodname_ghe_cloud %}. {% data variables.product.prodname_github_apps %} or {% data variables.product.prodname_oauth_apps %} have higher rate limits for organizations that use {% data variables.product.prodname_ghe_cloud %}.

{% endif %}

{% endif %}
