---
title: Authenticating to the REST API
intro: You can authenticate to the REST API to access more endpoints and have a higher rate limit.
redirect_from:
  - /v3/auth
  - /rest/overview/other-authentication-methods
versions:
  fpt: '*'
  ghes: '*'
  ghae: '*'
  ghec: '*'
topics:
  - API
shortTitle: Authenticating
---

## About authentication

Many REST API endpoints require authentication or return additional information if you are authenticated. Additionally, you can make more requests per hour when you are authenticated.

You can authenticate your request by sending a token in the `Authorization` header of your request. In the following example, replace `YOUR-TOKEN` with a reference to your token:

```shell
curl --request GET \
--url "{% data variables.product.api_url_code %}/octocat" \
--header "Authorization: Bearer YOUR-TOKEN"{% ifversion api-date-versioning %} \
--header "X-GitHub-Api-Version: {{ allVersions[currentVersion].latestApiVersion }}"{% endif %}
```

{% note %}

**Note:** {% data reusables.getting-started.bearer-vs-token %}

{% endnote %}

If you try to use a REST API endpoint without a token or with a token that has insufficient permissions, you will receive a `404 Not Found` or `403 Forbidden` response.

## Authenticating with a {% data variables.product.pat_generic %}

If you want to use the {% data variables.product.company_short %} REST API for personal use, you can create a {% data variables.product.pat_generic %}.{% ifversion pat-v2 %} If possible, {% data variables.product.company_short %} recommends that you use a {% data variables.product.pat_v2 %} instead of a {% data variables.product.pat_v1 %}.{% endif %} For more information about creating a {% data variables.product.pat_generic %}, see "[AUTOTITLE](/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token)."

{% ifversion pat-v2 %}If you are using a {% data variables.product.pat_v2 %}, your {% data variables.product.pat_v2 %} requires specific permissions in order to access each REST API endpoint. For more information about the permissions that are required for each endpoint, see "[AUTOTITLE](/rest/overview/permissions-required-for-fine-grained-personal-access-tokens)." If you are using a {% data variables.product.pat_v1 %}, your {% else %}Your {% endif %}{% data variables.product.pat_v1 %} requires specific scopes in order to access each REST API endpoint. For general guidance about what scopes to choose, see "[AUTOTITLE](/apps/oauth-apps/building-oauth-apps/scopes-for-oauth-apps#available-scopes)."

{% ifversion fpt or ghec %}If you use a {% data variables.product.pat_v1 %} to access an organization that enforces SAML single sign-on (SSO) for authentication, you will need to authorize your token after creation.{% ifversion pat-v2 %} {% data variables.product.pat_v2_caps %}s are authorized during token creation, before access to the organization is granted.{% endif %} For more information, see "[AUTOTITLE](/authentication/authenticating-with-saml-single-sign-on/authorizing-a-personal-access-token-for-use-with-saml-single-sign-on)."

If you do not authorize your {% data variables.product.pat_v1 %} for SAML SSO before you try to use it to access an organization that enforces SAML SSO, you may receive a `404 Not Found` or a `403 Forbidden` error. If you receive a `403 Forbidden` error, you can follow the URL in the `X-GitHub-SSO` header to authorize your token. The URL expires after one hour. If you requested data that could come from multiple organizations, the API will not return results from the organizations that require SAML SSO. The `X-GitHub-SSO` header will indicate the ID of the organizations that require SAML SSO authorization of your {% data variables.product.pat_v1 %}. For example: `X-GitHub-SSO: partial-results; organizations=21955855,20582480`.
{% endif %}

## Authenticating with a token generated by an app

If you want to use the API for an organization or on behalf of another user, {% data variables.product.company_short %} recommends that you use a {% data variables.product.prodname_github_app %}. For more information, see "[AUTOTITLE](/apps/creating-github-apps/authenticating-with-a-github-app/about-authentication-with-a-github-app)."

Your {% data variables.product.prodname_github_app %} requires specific permissions in order to access each REST API endpoint. For more information about the permissions that are required for each endpoint, see "[AUTOTITLE](/rest/overview/permissions-required-for-github-apps)."

You can also create an OAuth token with an {% data variables.product.prodname_oauth_app %} to access the REST API. However, {% data variables.product.company_short %} recommends that you use a {% data variables.product.prodname_github_app %} instead. {% data variables.product.prodname_github_apps %} allow more control over the access and permission that the app has.

{% ifversion fpt or ghec %}Access tokens created by apps are automatically authorized for SAML SSO.{% endif %}

### Using basic authentication

Some REST API endpoints for {% data variables.product.prodname_github_apps %} and {% data variables.product.prodname_oauth_apps %} require you to use basic authentication to access the endpoint. You will use the app's client ID as the username and the app's client secret as the password.

For example:

```shell
curl --request POST \
--url "{% data variables.product.api_url_code %}/applications/YOUR_CLIENT_ID/token" \
--user "YOUR_CLIENT_ID:YOUR_CLIENT_SECRET"{% ifversion api-date-versioning %} \
--header "Accept: application/vnd.github+json" \
--header "X-GitHub-Api-Version: {{ allVersions[currentVersion].latestApiVersion }}"{% endif %}
--data '{
  "access_token": "ACCESS_TOKEN_TO_CHECK"
}'
```

The client ID and client secret are associated with the app, not with the owner of the app or a user who authorized the app. They are used to perform operations on behalf of the app, such as creating access tokens.

If you are the owner of a {% data variables.product.prodname_github_app %} or {% data variables.product.prodname_oauth_app %}, or if you are an app manager for a {% data variables.product.prodname_github_app %}, you can find the client ID and generate a client secret on the settings page for your app. To navigate to your app's settings page:

1. In the upper-right corner of any page on {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %}, click your profile photo.
1. Navigate to your account settings.
   - For an app owned by a personal account, click **Settings**.
   - For an app owned by an organization:
     1. Click **Your organizations**.
     1. To the right of the organization, click **Settings**.
{% data reusables.user-settings.developer_settings %}
1. In the left sidebar, click **{% data variables.product.prodname_github_apps %}** or **{% data variables.product.prodname_oauth_apps %}**.
1. For {% data variables.product.prodname_github_apps %}, to the right of the {% data variables.product.prodname_github_app %} you want to access, click **Edit**. For {% data variables.product.prodname_oauth_apps %}, click the app that you want to access.
1. Next to **Client ID**, you will see the client ID for your app.
1. Next to **Client secrets**, click **Generate a new client secret** to generate a client secret for your app.

## Authenticating in a {% data variables.product.prodname_actions %} workflow

If you want to use the API in a {% data variables.product.prodname_actions %} workflow, {% data variables.product.company_short %} recommends that you authenticate with the built-in `GITHUB_TOKEN` instead of creating a token. You can grant permissions to the `GITHUB_TOKEN` with the `permissions` key. For more information, see "[AUTOTITLE](/actions/security-guides/automatic-token-authentication#permissions-for-the-github_token)."

## Authenticating with username and password

{% ifversion ghes %}

{% data variables.product.company_short %} recommends that you use a token to authenticate to the REST API instead of your password. You have more control over what a token can do, and you can revoke a token at anytime. However, you can also authenticate to the REST API using your username and password for basic authentication. To do so, you will pass your username and password with the `--user` option:

```shell
curl --request GET \
--url "{% data variables.product.api_url_code %}/user" \
--user USERNAME:PASSWORD{% ifversion api-date-versioning %} \
--header "X-GitHub-Api-Version: {{ allVersions[currentVersion].latestApiVersion }}"{% endif %}
```

{% else %}

Authentication with username and password is not supported. If you try to authenticate with user name and password, you will receive a 4xx error.

{% endif %}

## Further reading

- "[AUTOTITLE](/rest/overview/keeping-your-api-credentials-secure)."
