---
title: Telemetry terms
intro: 'Acceptance of the additional telemetry described below is a condition to joining the wait list for the technical preview of {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} Copilot and using {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} Copilot during the technical preview.'
redirect_from:
  - /early-access/github/copilot/telemetry-terms
versions:
  fpt: '*'
---

## Additional telemetry
If you are admitted to the technical preview and use {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} Copilot, the {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} Copilot Visual Studio Code extension will collect usage information about events in Visual Studio Code that are tied to your user account on {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %}. These events include {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} Copilot performance, features used, or suggestions accepted or dismissed. {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} collects this information using [Azure Application Insights](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/app/app-insights-overview). This information may include your User Personal Information, as defined in the [GitHub Privacy Statement](/github/site-policy/github-privacy-statement).

This usage information is used by {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %}, and shared with OpenAI, to develop and improve the {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} Copilot Visual Studio Code extension and related {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} products. OpenAI also uses this usage information to perform other services related to {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} Copilot, such as abuse monitoring. Please note that the usage information may include snippets of code that you use, create, or generate while using {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} Copilot. When you edit files with the {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} Copilot plugin enabled, file content snippets and suggestion results will be shared with {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} and OpenAI and used for diagnostic purposes and to improve suggestions. {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} Copilot relies on file content, for context, both in the file you are editing and potentially other files in the same Visual Studio Code workspace. {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} Copilot does not use your private code as input to suggest code for other users of {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} Copilot. The code snippets are treated as confidential information and accessed on a need-to-know basis. You are prohibited from collecting telemetry data about other users of {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} Copilot from the Visual Studio Code extension. For more details about {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} Copilot telemetry, please see "[About GitHub Copilot telemetry](/github/copilot/about-github-copilot-telemetry)." If you are admitted to the technical preview, you may revoke your consent to the additional telemetry and personal data processing operations described in this paragraph by contacting {% data variables.product.company_short %} and requesting removal from the technical preview.
