* **400 MiB file size limit:** When migrating a repository with {% data variables.product.prodname_importer_proper_name %}, no single file in your Git repository can be larger than 400 MiB. Consider using {% data variables.large_files.product_name_short %} for storing large files. For more information, see [AUTOTITLE](/repositories/working-with-files/managing-large-files).
* **{% data variables.large_files.product_name_short %} objects not migrated:** The {% data variables.product.prodname_importer_secondary_name %} can migrate repositories that use {% data variables.large_files.product_name_short %}, but the LFS objects themselves will not be migrated. They can be pushed to your migration destination as a follow-up task after the migration is complete. For more information, see [AUTOTITLE](/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/duplicating-a-repository#mirroring-a-repository-that-contains-git-large-file-storage-objects).
* **Follow-up tasks required:** When migrating between {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} products, certain settings are not migrated and must be reconfigured in the new repository. For a list of follow-up tasks you'll need to complete after each migration, see [AUTOTITLE](/migrations/using-github-enterprise-importer/migrating-between-github-products/overview-of-a-migration-between-github-products#completing-follow-up-tasks).
* **Delayed code search functionality:** Re-indexing the search index can take a few hours after a repository is migrated, and code searches may return unexpected results until re-indexing is complete.
* **Rulesets configured for your organization can cause migrations to fail:** For example, if you configured a rule that requires email addresses for commit authors to end with `@monalisa.cat`, and the repository you're migrating contains commits that don't comply with this rule, your migration will fail. For more information about rulesets, see [AUTOTITLE](/enterprise-cloud@latest/repositories/configuring-branches-and-merges-in-your-repository/managing-rulesets/about-rulesets).
* **Mannequin content might not be searchable:** Mannequins are placeholder users to which imported content (such as issues, pull requests, comments, etc.) is associated. When you search for content associated with a mannequin, such as assigned issues, the issues may not be found. Once a mannequin is reclaimed, the content should be found via the new owner. For more information, see [AUTOTITLE](/migrations/using-github-enterprise-importer/completing-your-migration-with-github-enterprise-importer/reclaiming-mannequins-for-github-enterprise-importer).
