There are limits to what {% data variables.product.prodname_importer_proper_name %} can migrate. Some are due to limitations of {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %}, while others are limitations of {% data variables.product.prodname_importer_proper_name %} itself.

### Limitations of {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %}

* **2 GB size limit for a single Git commit:** No single commit in your Git repository can be larger than 2 GB. If any of your commits are larger than 2 GB, you will need to split the commit into smaller commits that are each 2 GB or smaller.
* **255 byte limit for Git references:** No single [Git reference](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Internals-Git-References), commonly known as a "ref", can have a name larger than 255 bytes. Usually, this means that your references cannot be more than 255 characters long, but any non-[ASCII](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASCII) characters, such as emojis, may consume more than one byte. If any of your Git references are too large, we'll return a clear error message.
* **100 MB file size limit:** No single file in your Git repository can be larger than 100 MB. Consider using {% data variables.large_files.product_name_short %} for storing large files. For more information, see "[AUTOTITLE](/repositories/working-with-files/managing-large-files)."

### Limitations of {% data variables.product.prodname_importer_proper_name %}

* **10 GB size limit for a Git repository:** This limit only applies to the source code. To check if the repository archive is over the limit, use the [git-sizer](https://github.com/github/git-sizer) tool and review the total blob size in the output. The git-sizer tool also helps to identify potential issues related to large files, blob size, commit size, and tree counts that could impact migrations.
* **10 GB limit for metadata**: The {% data variables.product.prodname_importer_secondary_name %} cannot migrate repositories with more than 10 GB of metadata. Metadata includes issues, pull requests, releases, and attachments. In most cases, large metadata is caused by binary assets attached to releases. You can exclude releases from the migration with the `migrate-repo` command's `--skip-releases` flag, and then move your releases manually after the migration.
* **{% data variables.large_files.product_name_short %} objects not migrated**: The {% data variables.product.prodname_importer_secondary_name %} can migrate repositories that use {% data variables.large_files.product_name_short %}, but the LFS objects themselves will not be migrated. They can be pushed to your migration destination as a follow-up task after the migration is complete. For more information, see "[AUTOTITLE](/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/duplicating-a-repository#mirroring-a-repository-that-contains-git-large-file-storage-objects)."
* **Follow-up tasks required:** When migrating between {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} products, certain settings are not migrated and must be reconfigured in the new repository. For a list of follow-up tasks you'll need to complete after each migration, see "[AUTOTITLE](/migrations/using-github-enterprise-importer/migrating-between-github-products/overview-of-a-migration-between-github-products#completing-follow-up-tasks)."
* **Delayed code search functionality:** Re-indexing the search index can take a few hours after a repository is migrated, and code searches may return unexpected results until re-indexing is complete.
* **Rulesets configured for your organization can cause migrations to fail**: For example, if you configured a rule that requires email addresses for commit authors to end with `@monalisa.cat`, and the repository you're migrating contains commits that don't comply with this rule, your migration will fail. For more information about rulesets, see "[AUTOTITLE](/enterprise-cloud@latest/repositories/configuring-branches-and-merges-in-your-repository/managing-rulesets/about-rulesets)."
* **Mannequin content might not be searchable**: Mannequins are placeholder users to which imported content (such as issues, pull requests, comments, etc.) is associated. When you search for content associated with a mannequin, such as assigned issues, the issues may not be found. Once a mannequin is reclaimed, the content should be found via the new owner. For more information, see "[AUTOTITLE](/migrations/using-github-enterprise-importer/completing-your-migration-with-github-enterprise-importer/reclaiming-mannequins-for-github-enterprise-importer)."
