---
title: About GitHub Copilot Individual
intro: '{% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} can help you code by offering autocomplete-style suggestions. You can learn how {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} works, and what to consider while using {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %}.'
redirect_from:
  - /copilot/overview-of-github-copilot/about-github-copilot-for-individuals
  - /copilot/overview-of-github-copilot/about-github-copilot
  - /copilot/overview-of-github-copilot/about-github-copilot-individual

versions:
  feature: copilot
topics:
  - Copilot
shortTitle: About GitHub Copilot Individual
product: '{% data reusables.copilot.copilot-individual-emus %}'
---

## About {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %}

{% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} is an AI pair programmer that offers autocomplete-style suggestions as you code. You can receive suggestions from {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} either by starting to write the code you want to use, or by writing a natural language comment describing what you want the code to do. {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} analyzes the context in the file you are editing, as well as related files, and offers suggestions from within your text editor. {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} is powered by a generative AI model developed by {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %}, OpenAI, and Microsoft.

{% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} is trained on all languages that appear in public repositories. For each language, the quality of suggestions you receive may depend on the volume and diversity of training data for that language. For example, JavaScript is well-represented in public repositories and is one of {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %}'s best supported languages. Languages with less representation in public repositories may produce fewer or less robust suggestions.

{% data reusables.copilot.supported-tools %}

### Understanding the differences between {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot_individuals_short %}, {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot_business_short %}, and {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot_enterprise_short %}

{% data reusables.copilot.differences-cfi-cfb-table %}

## Using {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %}

You can see real-world examples of {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} in action. For more information, see the [{% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %}](https://copilot.github.com/) website.

{% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} offers suggestions from a model that OpenAI built from billions of lines of open source code. As a result, the training set for {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} may contain insecure coding patterns, bugs, or references to outdated APIs or idioms. When {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} produces suggestions based on this training data, those suggestions may also contain undesirable patterns.

You are responsible for ensuring the security and quality of your code. We recommend you take the same precautions when using code generated by {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} that you would when using any code you didn't write yourself. These precautions include rigorous testing, IP scanning, and tracking for security vulnerabilities. {% data variables.product.company_short %} provides a number of features to help you monitor and improve code quality, such as {% data variables.product.prodname_actions %}, {% data variables.product.prodname_dependabot %}, {% data variables.product.prodname_codeql %} and {% data variables.product.prodname_code_scanning %}. All these features are free to use in public repositories. For more information, see "[AUTOTITLE](/actions/learn-github-actions/understanding-github-actions)" and "[AUTOTITLE](/code-security/getting-started/github-security-features)."

{% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} uses filters to block offensive words in the prompts and avoid producing suggestions in sensitive contexts. We are committed to constantly improving the filter system to more intelligently detect and remove offensive suggestions generated by {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %}, including biased, discriminatory, or abusive outputs. If you see an offensive suggestion generated by {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %}, please report the suggestion directly to copilot-safety@github.com so that we can improve our safeguards.

## About billing for {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %}

{% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} is a paid feature, requiring a monthly or yearly subscription. {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} subscriptions can be paid for and managed through a personal account on {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom_the_website %} with {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot_individuals_short %}, or paid for and managed centrally through {% ifversion fpt %}an organization account {% else %}an enterprise account on {% data variables.product.prodname_ghe_cloud %}{% endif %} with {% ifversion ghec %}either{% endif %} {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot_for_business %}{% ifversion ghec %} or {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot_enterprise %}{% endif %}.

Verified students, teachers, and maintainers of popular open source projects on {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} are eligible to use {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot_individuals_short %} for free. If you meet the criteria for a free {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot_individuals_short %} subscription, you will be automatically notified when you visit the {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} subscription page. {% ifversion fpt %}If you do not meet the criteria for a free {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot_individuals_short %} subscription, you will be offered a {% data reusables.copilot.trial-period %}-day free trial, after which a paid subscription is required for continued use.{% endif %}

For more information, see "[AUTOTITLE](/billing/managing-billing-for-github-copilot/about-billing-for-github-copilot)."

## About the license for the {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} plugin in JetBrains IDEs

{% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %}, Inc. is the licensor of the JetBrains plugin. The end user license agreement for this plugin is the [{% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} Terms for Additional Products and Features](/free-pro-team@latest/site-policy/github-terms/github-terms-for-additional-products-and-features#github-copilot) and use of this plugin is subject to those terms. JetBrains has no responsibility or liability in connection with the plugin or such agreement. By using the plugin, you agree to the foregoing terms.

## About privacy for {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot_for_individuals %}

Learn more about {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %}'s data collection, retention, and processing for {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot_for_individuals %}.

### What data does {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot_for_individuals %} collect?

{% data variables.product.prodname_copilot_for_individuals %} relies on file content and additional data to work. It collects data to provide the service, some of which is then retained for further analysis and product improvements. {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} processes the following data for individual users.

### User Engagement Data

When you use {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} it will collect usage information about events generated when interacting with {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %}. These events include user edit actions like if Suggestions are accepted or dismissed, and error and general usage data to identify metrics like latency and features engagement. This information may include personal data, such as pseudonymous identifiers.

#### Prompts

A Prompt is the collection of code and supporting contextual information {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} sends to {% data variables.product.company_short %} to generate Suggestions, including data you submit through a chat interface. {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} in the code editor retains Prompts unless you have disabled code snippet collection in your settings. {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot_cli %} retains Prompts in order to provide the Service.

#### Suggestions

A Suggestion is the code, functions, or other output returned to you by {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} after a Prompt is received and processed by the AI-model. {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} in the code editor retains Suggestions unless you disable code snippet collection in your settings. {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot_cli %} retains Suggestions in order to provide the Service.

### How is the data in {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot_for_individuals %} used and shared?

User Engagement Data, Prompts and Suggestions are used by {% data variables.product.company_short %} and Microsoft to improve {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} and related services and to conduct product and academic research.

- Enhancing {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %}: The data collected is utilized to improve {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} by evaluating different strategies for processing and predicting suggestions that users may find valuable.
- Developing related developer products and services: The insights gained from the data help in the development and improvement of other developer tools and services offered by {% data variables.product.company_short %} and Microsoft.
- Detecting abuse and policy violations: The data is examined to investigate and identify any potential misuse or violation of the Acceptable Use Policies associated with {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %}.
- Conducting experiments and research: The data is used for conducting experiments and research related to developers and their utilization of developer tools and services. This aids in gaining valuable insights into user behavior and preferences.
- Evaluating {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %}: The impact of {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} on users is assessed by measuring its positive effects and benefits.
- Improving code generation models: The collected data is employed to refine and enhance the underlying models responsible for generating code. This is achieved by utilizing both positive and negative examples.
- Fine-tuning ranking and sorting algorithms: The data helps in the optimization and improvement of algorithms used for ranking and sorting suggestions, thereby enhancing the overall user experience.

### How is the transmitted Code Snippets data protected?

To ensure the protection of sensitive data such as user edit actions, source code snippets, and repository URLs/file paths, several protective measures are implemented. These measures include:

- Encryption of transmitted data: All data is encrypted both during transit and while at rest, ensuring that it remains secure and inaccessible to unauthorized parties.
- Strict access control: Access to the data is tightly regulated and limited to specific individuals, including:
    - Named {% data variables.product.company_short %} personnel working on the {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} team or the {% data variables.product.company_short %} platform health team.
    - Microsoft personnel involved with the {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} team.
- Role-based access controls and multi-factor authentication: People who require access to code snippet data must adhere to role-based access controls. Additionally, multi-factor authentication is implemented to add an extra layer of security, ensuring that only authorized individuals can access the data.

### How can users of {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot_for_individuals %} control use of their Code Snippets Data?

{% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} gives you choices about how it uses the data it collects.

- User Engagement Data: User Engagement Data, including pseudonymous identifiers and general usage data, is necessary for the proper functioning of {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %}. This data is collected, processed, and shared with Microsoft while you use {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %}.
- Retention of Prompts and Suggestions: You have the option to decide whether Prompts and Suggestions, when using {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} in your code editor, are retained by {% data variables.product.company_short %} and shared with Microsoft. These preferences can be adjusted in the [{% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} settings](https://github.com/settings/copilot).
- Requesting Deletion: If you wish to delete Prompts and Suggestions associated with your {% data variables.product.company_short %} identity, contact {% data variables.contact.contact_support %}.

### Will my private code be shared with other users?

No. We follow responsible practices in accordance with our [Privacy Statement](/free-pro-team@latest/site-policy/privacy-policies/github-privacy-statement) to ensure that your code snippets will not be used as suggested code for other users of {% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %}.

## Further reading

- "[AUTOTITLE](/free-pro-team@latest/site-policy/github-terms/github-terms-for-additional-products-and-features#github-copilot)"{% ifversion ghec %}
- [{% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} Trust Center](https://resources.github.com/copilot-trust-center/){% endif %}
- "[{% data variables.product.prodname_copilot %} FAQ](https://github.com/features/copilot#faq)"
