K1ss github cli
Skip to content
Your account has been flagged.
Because of that, your profile is hidden from the public. If you believe this is a mistake, contact support to have your account status reviewed.
cli
/
cli
Public
Code
Issues
339
Pull requests
25
Discussions
Actions
Projects
1
Security
1
Insights
cli/docs/install_linux.md
@Hanjingxue-Boling
Hanjingxue-Boling Update installation instructions for Fedora (#5204)
…
 32 contributors
@vilmibm@mislav@fossdd@dbruns@tniessen@zpuskas@yzgyyang@0atman@tomrule007@TobiX@droideck@ShubhankarKG
 214 lines (142 sloc)  5.28 KB
Installing gh on Linux and BSD
Packages downloaded from https://cli.github.com or from https://github.com/cli/cli/releases are considered official binaries. We focus on popular Linux distros and the following CPU architectures: i386, amd64, arm64, armhf.

Other sources for installation are community-maintained and thus might lag behind our release schedule.

Official sources
Debian, Ubuntu Linux, Raspberry Pi OS (apt)
Install:

curl -fsSL https://cli.github.com/packages/githubcli-archive-keyring.gpg | sudo dd of=/usr/share/keyrings/githubcli-archive-keyring.gpg
echo "deb [arch=$(dpkg --print-architecture) signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/githubcli-archive-keyring.gpg] https://cli.github.com/packages stable main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/github-cli.list > /dev/null
sudo apt update
sudo apt install gh
Upgrade:

sudo apt update
sudo apt install gh
Fedora, CentOS, Red Hat Enterprise Linux (dnf)
Install from our package repository for immediate access to latest releases:

sudo dnf config-manager --add-repo https://cli.github.com/packages/rpm/gh-cli.repo
sudo dnf install gh
Alternatively, install from the community repository:

sudo dnf install gh
Upgrade:

sudo dnf update gh
openSUSE/SUSE Linux (zypper)
Install:

sudo zypper addrepo https://cli.github.com/packages/rpm/gh-cli.repo
sudo zypper ref
sudo zypper install gh
Upgrade:

sudo zypper ref
sudo zypper update gh
Manual installation
Download release binaries that match your platform; or
Build from source.
Unofficial, community-supported methods
The GitHub CLI team does not maintain the following packages or repositories and thus we are unable to provide support for those installation methods.

Snap (do not use)
There are so many issues with Snap as a runtime mechanism for apps like GitHub CLI that our team suggests never installing gh as a snap.

Arch Linux
Arch Linux users can install from the community repo:

sudo pacman -S github-cli
Alternatively, use the unofficial AUR package to build GitHub CLI from source.

Android
Android 7+ users can install via Termux:

pkg install gh
FreeBSD
FreeBSD users can install from the ports collection:

cd /usr/ports/devel/gh/ && make install clean
Or via pkg(8):

pkg install gh
NetBSD/pkgsrc
NetBSD users and those on platforms supported by pkgsrc can install the gh package:

pkgin install gh
To install from source:

cd /usr/pkgsrc/net/gh && make package-install
OpenBSD
In -current, or in releases starting from 7.0, OpenBSD users can install from packages:

pkg_add github-cli
Funtoo
Funtoo Linux has an autogenerated github-cli package, located in dev-kit, which can be installed in the following way:

emerge -av github-cli
Upgrading can be done by syncing the repos and then requesting an upgrade:

ego sync
emerge -u github-cli
Gentoo
Gentoo Linux users can install from the main portage tree:

emerge -av github-cli
Upgrading can be done by updating the portage tree and then requesting an upgrade:

emerge --sync
emerge -u github-cli
Kiss Linux
Kiss Linux users can install from the community repos:

kiss b github-cli && kiss i github-cli
Nix/NixOS
Nix/NixOS users can install from nixpkgs:

nix-env -iA nixos.gitAndTools.gh
openSUSE Tumbleweed
openSUSE Tumbleweed users can install from the official distribution repo:

sudo zypper in gh
Alpine Linux
Alpine Linux users can install from the stable releases' community packaage repository.

apk add github-cli
Users wanting the latest version of the CLI without waiting to be backported into the stable release they're using should use the edge release's community repo through this method below, without mixing packages from stable and unstable repos.1

echo "@community http://dl-cdn.alpinelinux.org/alpine/edge/community" >> /etc/apk/repositories
apk add github-cli@community
Void Linux
Void Linux users can install from the official distribution repo:

sudo xbps-install github-cli
Footnotes
https://wiki.alpinelinux.org/wiki/Package_management#Repository_pinning ↩

© 2022 GitHub, Inc.
Terms
Privacy
Security
Status
Docs
Contact GitHub
Pricing
API
Training
Blog
About
---
title: About pull requests
intro: 'Pull requests let you tell others about changes you''ve pushed to a branch in a repository on {% data variables.product.product_name %}. Once a pull request is opened, you can discuss and review the potential changes with collaborators and add follow-up commits before your changes are merged into the base branch.'
redirect_from:
  - /github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/about-pull-requests
  - /articles/using-pull-requests
  - /articles/about-pull-requests
  - /github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/about-pull-requests
  - /github/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/about-pull-requests
versions:
  fpt: '*'
  ghes: '*'
  ghae: '*'
  ghec: '*'
topics:
  - Pull requests
---

## About pull requests

{% note %}

**Note:** When working with pull requests, keep the following in mind:
* If you're working in the [shared repository model](/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/getting-started/about-collaborative-development-models), we recommend that you use a topic branch for your pull request. While you can send pull requests from any branch or commit, with a topic branch you can push follow-up commits if you need to update your proposed changes.
* Be very careful when force pushing commits to a pull request. Force pushing changes the repository history and can corrupt your pull request. If other collaborators branch the project before a force push, the force push may overwrite commits that collaborators based their work on.

{% endnote %}

You can create pull requests on {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom_the_website %}, with {% data variables.product.prodname_desktop %}, in {% data variables.product.prodname_codespaces %}, on {% data variables.product.prodname_mobile %}, and when using GitHub CLI.

After initializing a pull request, you'll see a review page that shows a high-level overview of the changes between your branch (the compare branch) and the repository's base branch. You can add a summary of the proposed changes, review the changes made by commits, add labels, milestones, and assignees, and @mention individual contributors or teams. For more information, see "[Creating a pull request](/articles/creating-a-pull-request)."

Once you've created a pull request, you can push commits from your topic branch to add them to your existing pull request. These commits will appear in chronological order within your pull request and the changes will be visible in the "Files changed" tab.

Other contributors can review your proposed changes, add review comments, contribute to the pull request discussion, and even add commits to the pull request. {% if pull-request-approval-limit %}{% data reusables.pull_requests.code-review-limits %}{% endif %}

{% ifversion fpt or ghec %}
You can see information about the branch's current deployment status and past deployment activity on the "Conversation" tab. For more information, see "[Viewing deployment activity for a repository](/repositories/viewing-activity-and-data-for-your-repository/viewing-deployment-activity-for-your-repository)."
{% endif %}

After you're happy with the proposed changes, you can merge the pull request. If you're working in a shared repository model, you create a pull request and you, or someone else, will merge your changes from your feature branch into the base branch you specify in your pull request. For more information, see "[Merging a pull request](/articles/merging-a-pull-request)."

{% data reusables.pull_requests.required-checks-must-pass-to-merge %}

{% data reusables.pull_requests.close-issues-using-keywords %}

{% tip %}

**Tips:**
- To toggle between collapsing and expanding all outdated review comments in a pull request, hold down <span class="platform-mac"><kbd>Option</kbd></span><span class="platform-linux"><kbd>Alt</kbd></span><span class="platform-windows"><kbd>Alt</kbd></span> and click **Show outdated** or **Hide outdated**. For more shortcuts, see "[Keyboard shortcuts](/articles/keyboard-shortcuts)."
- You can squash commits when merging a pull request to gain a more streamlined view of changes. For more information, see "[About pull request merges](/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/incorporating-changes-from-a-pull-request/about-pull-request-merges)."

{% endtip %}

You can visit your dashboard to quickly find links to recently updated pull requests you're working on or subscribed to. For more information, see "[About your personal dashboard](/articles/about-your-personal-dashboard)."

## Draft pull requests

{% data reusables.gated-features.draft-prs %}

When you create a pull request, you can choose to create a pull request that is ready for review or a draft pull request. Draft pull requests cannot be merged, and code owners are not automatically requested to review draft pull requests. For more information about creating a draft pull request, see "[Creating a pull request](/articles/creating-a-pull-request)" and "[Creating a pull request from a fork](/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request-from-a-fork)."

{% data reusables.pull_requests.mark-ready-review %} You can convert a pull request to a draft at any time. For more information, see "[Changing the stage of a pull request](/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/changing-the-stage-of-a-pull-request)."

## Differences between commits on compare and pull request pages

The compare and pull request pages use different methods to calculate the diff for changed files:

- Compare pages show the diff between the tip of the head ref and the current common ancestor (that is, the merge base) of the head and base ref.
- Pull request pages show the diff between the tip of the head ref and the common ancestor of the head and base ref at the time when the pull request was created. Consequently, the merge base used for the comparison might be different.

## Further reading

- "[Pull request](/articles/github-glossary/#pull-request)" in the {% data variables.product.prodname_dotcom %} glossary
- "[About branches](/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/about-branches)"
- "[Commenting on a pull request](/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/reviewing-changes-in-pull-requests/commenting-on-a-pull-request)"
- "[Closing a pull request](/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/incorporating-changes-from-a-pull-request/closing-a-pull-request)"
